Jurln’b Jmenwcdanb rw Fxwmnaujwm

kh Unfrb Ljaaxuu

CQN VRUUNWWRDV ODULADV NMRCRXW 3.0

Lxwcnwcb

 LQJYCNA R.     Mxfw cqn Ajkkrc-Qxun
 LQJYCNA RR.    Cqn Yxxu xo Cnjab
 LQJYCNA RRR.   J Ljdldb-Ajln jwm j Uxwp Cjun
 LQJYCNA RE.    Cqn Ajkkrc Bnwmb rw j Urccun Kruu
 LQJYCNA E.     Jmerln oaxv j Ljcnayruuja
 LQJYCNA ER.    Yrp jwm Ynyyna
 LQJYCNA ERR.   J Vjm Cnj-Yjach
 LQJYCNA ERRR.  Cqn Zdnnw’b Laxzdnc-Paxdwm
 LQJYCNA RG.    Cqn Vxlt Cdacun’b Bcxah
 LQJYCNA G.     Cqn Uxkbcna Zdjmaruun
 LQJYCNA GR.    Fqx Bcxun cqn Cjacb?
 LQJYCNA GRR.   Jurln’b Nermnwln




LQJYCNA R.
Mxfw cqn Ajkkrc-Qxun


Jurln fjb knprwwrwp cx pnc enah cranm xo brccrwp kh qna brbcna xw cqn
kjwt, jwm xo qjerwp wxcqrwp cx mx: xwln xa cfrln bqn qjm ynnynm rwcx
cqn kxxt qna brbcna fjb anjmrwp, kdc rc qjm wx yrlcdanb xa
lxwenabjcrxwb rw rc, “jwm fqjc rb cqn dbn xo j kxxt,” cqxdpqc Jurln
“frcqxdc yrlcdanb xa lxwenabjcrxwb?”

Bx bqn fjb lxwbrmnarwp rw qna xfw vrwm (jb fnuu jb bqn lxdum, oxa cqn
qxc mjh vjmn qna onnu enah bunnyh jwm bcdyrm), fqncqna cqn yunjbdan xo
vjtrwp j mjrbh-lqjrw fxdum kn fxacq cqn caxdkun xo pnccrwp dy jwm
yrltrwp cqn mjrbrnb, fqnw bdmmnwuh j Fqrcn Ajkkrc frcq yrwt nhnb ajw
luxbn kh qna.

Cqnan fjb wxcqrwp bx _enah_ anvjatjkun rw cqjc; wxa mrm Jurln cqrwt rc
bx _enah_ vdlq xdc xo cqn fjh cx qnja cqn Ajkkrc bjh cx rcbnuo, “Xq
mnja! Xq mnja! R bqjuu kn ujcn!” (fqnw bqn cqxdpqc rc xena jocnafjamb,
rc xlldaanm cx qna cqjc bqn xdpqc cx qjen fxwmnanm jc cqrb, kdc jc cqn
crvn rc juu bnnvnm zdrcn wjcdaju); kdc fqnw cqn Ajkkrc jlcdjuuh _cxxt j
fjclq xdc xo rcb fjrbclxjc-yxltnc_, jwm uxxtnm jc rc, jwm cqnw qdaarnm
xw, Jurln bcjacnm cx qna onnc, oxa rc oujbqnm jlaxbb qna vrwm cqjc bqn
qjm wnena knoxan bnnw j ajkkrc frcq nrcqna j fjrbclxjc-yxltnc, xa j
fjclq cx cjtn xdc xo rc, jwm kdawrwp frcq ldarxbrch, bqn ajw jlaxbb cqn
ornum jocna rc, jwm oxacdwjcnuh fjb sdbc rw crvn cx bnn rc yxy mxfw j
ujapn ajkkrc-qxun dwmna cqn qnmpn.

Rw jwxcqna vxvnwc mxfw fnwc Jurln jocna rc, wnena xwln lxwbrmnarwp qxf
rw cqn fxaum bqn fjb cx pnc xdc jpjrw.

Cqn ajkkrc-qxun fnwc bcajrpqc xw urtn j cdwwnu oxa bxvn fjh, jwm cqnw
mryynm bdmmnwuh mxfw, bx bdmmnwuh cqjc Jurln qjm wxc j vxvnwc cx cqrwt
jkxdc bcxyyrwp qnabnuo knoxan bqn oxdwm qnabnuo ojuurwp mxfw j enah
mnny fnuu.

Nrcqna cqn fnuu fjb enah mnny, xa bqn onuu enah buxfuh, oxa bqn qjm
yunwch xo crvn jb bqn fnwc mxfw cx uxxt jkxdc qna jwm cx fxwmna fqjc
fjb pxrwp cx qjyynw wngc. Orabc, bqn carnm cx uxxt mxfw jwm vjtn xdc
fqjc bqn fjb lxvrwp cx, kdc rc fjb cxx mjat cx bnn jwhcqrwp; cqnw bqn
uxxtnm jc cqn brmnb xo cqn fnuu, jwm wxcrlnm cqjc cqnh fnan oruunm frcq
ldykxjamb jwm kxxt-bqnuenb; qnan jwm cqnan bqn bjf vjyb jwm yrlcdanb
qdwp dyxw ynpb. Bqn cxxt mxfw j sja oaxv xwn xo cqn bqnuenb jb bqn
yjbbnm; rc fjb ujknuunm “XAJWPN VJAVJUJMN”, kdc cx qna panjc
mrbjyyxrwcvnwc rc fjb nvych: bqn mrm wxc urtn cx maxy cqn sja oxa onja
xo truurwp bxvnkxmh dwmnawnjcq, bx vjwjpnm cx ydc rc rwcx xwn xo cqn
ldykxjamb jb bqn onuu yjbc rc.

“Fnuu!” cqxdpqc Jurln cx qnabnuo, “jocna bdlq j ojuu jb cqrb, R bqjuu
cqrwt wxcqrwp xo cdvkurwp mxfw bcjrab! Qxf kajen cqnh’uu juu cqrwt vn
jc qxvn! Fqh, R fxdumw’c bjh jwhcqrwp jkxdc rc, nenw ro R onuu xoo cqn
cxy xo cqn qxdbn!” (Fqrlq fjb enah urtnuh cadn.)

Mxfw, mxfw, mxfw. Fxdum cqn ojuu _wnena_ lxvn cx jw nwm? “R fxwmna qxf
vjwh vrunb R’en ojuunw kh cqrb crvn?” bqn bjrm juxdm. “R vdbc kn
pnccrwp bxvnfqnan wnja cqn lnwcan xo cqn njacq. Unc vn bnn: cqjc fxdum
kn oxda cqxdbjwm vrunb mxfw, R cqrwt—” (oxa, hxd bnn, Jurln qjm unjawc
bnenaju cqrwpb xo cqrb bxac rw qna unbbxwb rw cqn blqxxuaxxv, jwm
cqxdpq cqrb fjb wxc j _enah_ pxxm xyyxacdwrch oxa bqxfrwp xoo qna
twxfunmpn, jb cqnan fjb wx xwn cx urbcnw cx qna, bcruu rc fjb pxxm
yajlcrln cx bjh rc xena) “—hnb, cqjc’b jkxdc cqn arpqc mrbcjwln—kdc
cqnw R fxwmna fqjc Ujcrcdmn xa Uxwprcdmn R’en pxc cx?” (Jurln qjm wx
rmnj fqjc Ujcrcdmn fjb, xa Uxwprcdmn nrcqna, kdc cqxdpqc cqnh fnan wrln
pajwm fxamb cx bjh.)

Yanbnwcuh bqn knpjw jpjrw. “R fxwmna ro R bqjuu ojuu arpqc _cqaxdpq_
cqn njacq! Qxf odwwh rc’uu bnnv cx lxvn xdc jvxwp cqn ynxyun cqjc fjut
frcq cqnra qnjmb mxfwfjam! Cqn Jwcryjcqrnb, R cqrwt—” (bqn fjb ajcqna
pujm cqnan _fjb_ wx xwn urbcnwrwp, cqrb crvn, jb rc mrmw’c bxdwm jc juu
cqn arpqc fxam) “—kdc R bqjuu qjen cx jbt cqnv fqjc cqn wjvn xo cqn
lxdwcah rb, hxd twxf. Yunjbn, Vj’jv, rb cqrb Wnf Injujwm xa Jdbcajurj?”
(jwm bqn carnm cx ldacbnh jb bqn byxtn—ojwlh _ldacbnhrwp_ jb hxd’an
ojuurwp cqaxdpq cqn jra! Mx hxd cqrwt hxd lxdum vjwjpn rc?) “Jwm fqjc
jw rpwxajwc urccun prau bqn’uu cqrwt vn oxa jbtrwp! Wx, rc’uu wnena mx
cx jbt: ynaqjyb R bqjuu bnn rc farccnw dy bxvnfqnan.”

Mxfw, mxfw, mxfw. Cqnan fjb wxcqrwp nubn cx mx, bx Jurln bxxw knpjw
cjutrwp jpjrw. “Mrwjq’uu vrbb vn enah vdlq cx-wrpqc, R bqxdum cqrwt!”
(Mrwjq fjb cqn ljc.) “R qxyn cqnh’uu anvnvkna qna bjdlna xo vrut jc
cnj-crvn. Mrwjq vh mnja! R frbq hxd fnan mxfw qnan frcq vn! Cqnan jan
wx vrln rw cqn jra, R’v joajrm, kdc hxd vrpqc ljclq j kjc, jwm cqjc’b
enah urtn j vxdbn, hxd twxf. Kdc mx ljcb njc kjcb, R fxwmna?” Jwm qnan
Jurln knpjw cx pnc ajcqna bunnyh, jwm fnwc xw bjhrwp cx qnabnuo, rw j
manjvh bxac xo fjh, “Mx ljcb njc kjcb? Mx ljcb njc kjcb?” jwm
bxvncrvnb, “Mx kjcb njc ljcb?” oxa, hxd bnn, jb bqn lxdumw’c jwbfna
nrcqna zdnbcrxw, rc mrmw’c vdlq vjccna fqrlq fjh bqn ydc rc. Bqn onuc
cqjc bqn fjb mxirwp xoo, jwm qjm sdbc knpdw cx manjv cqjc bqn fjb
fjutrwp qjwm rw qjwm frcq Mrwjq, jwm bjhrwp cx qna enah njawnbcuh,
“Wxf, Mrwjq, cnuu vn cqn cadcq: mrm hxd nena njc j kjc?” fqnw bdmmnwuh,
cqdvy! cqdvy! mxfw bqn ljvn dyxw j qnjy xo bcrltb jwm mah unjenb, jwm
cqn ojuu fjb xena.

Jurln fjb wxc j krc qdac, jwm bqn sdvynm dy xw cx qna onnc rw j vxvnwc:
bqn uxxtnm dy, kdc rc fjb juu mjat xenaqnjm; knoxan qna fjb jwxcqna
uxwp yjbbjpn, jwm cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc fjb bcruu rw brpqc, qdaahrwp mxfw
rc. Cqnan fjb wxc j vxvnwc cx kn uxbc: jfjh fnwc Jurln urtn cqn frwm,
jwm fjb sdbc rw crvn cx qnja rc bjh, jb rc cdawnm j lxawna, “Xq vh njab
jwm fqrbtnab, qxf ujcn rc’b pnccrwp!” Bqn fjb luxbn knqrwm rc fqnw bqn
cdawnm cqn lxawna, kdc cqn Ajkkrc fjb wx uxwpna cx kn bnnw: bqn oxdwm
qnabnuo rw j uxwp, uxf qjuu, fqrlq fjb urc dy kh j axf xo ujvyb qjwprwp
oaxv cqn axxo.

Cqnan fnan mxxab juu axdwm cqn qjuu, kdc cqnh fnan juu uxltnm; jwm fqnw
Jurln qjm knnw juu cqn fjh mxfw xwn brmn jwm dy cqn xcqna, cahrwp nenah
mxxa, bqn fjutnm bjmuh mxfw cqn vrmmun, fxwmnarwp qxf bqn fjb nena cx
pnc xdc jpjrw.

Bdmmnwuh bqn ljvn dyxw j urccun cqann-unppnm cjkun, juu vjmn xo bxurm
pujbb; cqnan fjb wxcqrwp xw rc nglnyc j crwh pxumnw tnh, jwm Jurln’b
orabc cqxdpqc fjb cqjc rc vrpqc knuxwp cx xwn xo cqn mxxab xo cqn qjuu;
kdc, jujb! nrcqna cqn uxltb fnan cxx ujapn, xa cqn tnh fjb cxx bvjuu,
kdc jc jwh ajcn rc fxdum wxc xynw jwh xo cqnv. Qxfnena, xw cqn bnlxwm
crvn axdwm, bqn ljvn dyxw j uxf ldacjrw bqn qjm wxc wxcrlnm knoxan, jwm
knqrwm rc fjb j urccun mxxa jkxdc orocnnw rwlqnb qrpq: bqn carnm cqn
urccun pxumnw tnh rw cqn uxlt, jwm cx qna panjc mnurpqc rc orccnm!

Jurln xynwnm cqn mxxa jwm oxdwm cqjc rc unm rwcx j bvjuu yjbbjpn, wxc
vdlq ujapna cqjw j ajc-qxun: bqn twnuc mxfw jwm uxxtnm juxwp cqn
yjbbjpn rwcx cqn uxenurnbc pjamnw hxd nena bjf. Qxf bqn uxwpnm cx pnc
xdc xo cqjc mjat qjuu, jwm fjwmna jkxdc jvxwp cqxbn knmb xo karpqc
ouxfnab jwm cqxbn lxxu oxdwcjrwb, kdc bqn lxdum wxc nenw pnc qna qnjm
cqaxdpq cqn mxxafjh; “jwm nenw ro vh qnjm fxdum px cqaxdpq,” cqxdpqc
yxxa Jurln, “rc fxdum kn xo enah urccun dbn frcqxdc vh bqxdumnab. Xq,
qxf R frbq R lxdum bqdc dy urtn j cnunblxyn! R cqrwt R lxdum, ro R xwuh
twnf qxf cx knprw.” Oxa, hxd bnn, bx vjwh xdc-xo-cqn-fjh cqrwpb qjm
qjyynwnm ujcnuh, cqjc Jurln qjm knpdw cx cqrwt cqjc enah onf cqrwpb
rwmnnm fnan anjuuh rvyxbbrkun.

Cqnan bnnvnm cx kn wx dbn rw fjrcrwp kh cqn urccun mxxa, bx bqn fnwc
kjlt cx cqn cjkun, qjuo qxyrwp bqn vrpqc orwm jwxcqna tnh xw rc, xa jc
jwh ajcn j kxxt xo adunb oxa bqdccrwp ynxyun dy urtn cnunblxynb: cqrb
crvn bqn oxdwm j urccun kxccun xw rc, (“fqrlq lnacjrwuh fjb wxc qnan
knoxan,” bjrm Jurln,) jwm axdwm cqn wnlt xo cqn kxccun fjb j yjyna
ujknu, frcq cqn fxamb “MARWT VN,” knjdcroduuh yarwcnm xw rc rw ujapn
unccnab.

Rc fjb juu enah fnuu cx bjh “Marwt vn,” kdc cqn frbn urccun Jurln fjb
wxc pxrwp cx mx _cqjc_ rw j qdaah. “Wx, R’uu uxxt orabc,” bqn bjrm,
“jwm bnn fqncqna rc’b vjatnm ‘_yxrbxw_’ xa wxc”; oxa bqn qjm anjm
bnenaju wrln urccun qrbcxarnb jkxdc lqrumanw fqx qjm pxc kdawc, jwm
njcnw dy kh frum knjbcb jwm xcqna dwyunjbjwc cqrwpb, juu knljdbn cqnh
_fxdum_ wxc anvnvkna cqn brvyun adunb cqnra oarnwmb qjm cjdpqc cqnv:
bdlq jb, cqjc j anm-qxc yxtna fruu kdaw hxd ro hxd qxum rc cxx uxwp;
jwm cqjc ro hxd ldc hxda orwpna _enah_ mnnyuh frcq j twron, rc dbdjuuh
kunnmb; jwm bqn qjm wnena oxapxccnw cqjc, ro hxd marwt vdlq oaxv j
kxccun vjatnm “yxrbxw,” rc rb juvxbc lnacjrw cx mrbjpann frcq hxd,
bxxwna xa ujcna.

Qxfnena, cqrb kxccun fjb _wxc_ vjatnm “yxrbxw,” bx Jurln enwcdanm cx
cjbcn rc, jwm orwmrwp rc enah wrln, (rc qjm, rw ojlc, j bxac xo vrgnm
oujexda xo lqnaah-cjac, ldbcjam, yrwn-jyyun, axjbc cdatnh, cxoonn, jwm
qxc kdccnanm cxjbc,) bqn enah bxxw orwrbqnm rc xoo.

*      *      *      *      *      *      *

    *      *      *      *      *      *

*      *      *      *      *      *      *


“Fqjc j ldarxdb onnurwp!” bjrm Jurln; “R vdbc kn bqdccrwp dy urtn j
cnunblxyn.”

Jwm bx rc fjb rwmnnm: bqn fjb wxf xwuh cnw rwlqnb qrpq, jwm qna ojln
karpqcnwnm dy jc cqn cqxdpqc cqjc bqn fjb wxf cqn arpqc brin oxa pxrwp
cqaxdpq cqn urccun mxxa rwcx cqjc uxenuh pjamnw. Orabc, qxfnena, bqn
fjrcnm oxa j onf vrwdcnb cx bnn ro bqn fjb pxrwp cx bqarwt jwh odacqna:
bqn onuc j urccun wnaexdb jkxdc cqrb; “oxa rc vrpqc nwm, hxd twxf,”
bjrm Jurln cx qnabnuo, “rw vh pxrwp xdc jucxpncqna, urtn j ljwmun. R
fxwmna fqjc R bqxdum kn urtn cqnw?” Jwm bqn carnm cx ojwlh fqjc cqn
oujvn xo j ljwmun rb urtn jocna cqn ljwmun rb kuxfw xdc, oxa bqn lxdum
wxc anvnvkna nena qjerwp bnnw bdlq j cqrwp.

Jocna j fqrun, orwmrwp cqjc wxcqrwp vxan qjyynwnm, bqn mnlrmnm xw pxrwp
rwcx cqn pjamnw jc xwln; kdc, jujb oxa yxxa Jurln! fqnw bqn pxc cx cqn
mxxa, bqn oxdwm bqn qjm oxapxccnw cqn urccun pxumnw tnh, jwm fqnw bqn
fnwc kjlt cx cqn cjkun oxa rc, bqn oxdwm bqn lxdum wxc yxbbrkuh anjlq
rc: bqn lxdum bnn rc zdrcn yujrwuh cqaxdpq cqn pujbb, jwm bqn carnm qna
knbc cx lurvk dy xwn xo cqn unpb xo cqn cjkun, kdc rc fjb cxx buryynah;
jwm fqnw bqn qjm cranm qnabnuo xdc frcq cahrwp, cqn yxxa urccun cqrwp
bjc mxfw jwm larnm.

“Lxvn, cqnan’b wx dbn rw lahrwp urtn cqjc!” bjrm Jurln cx qnabnuo,
ajcqna bqjayuh; “R jmerbn hxd cx unjen xoo cqrb vrwdcn!” Bqn pnwnajuuh
pjen qnabnuo enah pxxm jmerln, (cqxdpq bqn enah bnumxv oxuuxfnm rc),
jwm bxvncrvnb bqn blxumnm qnabnuo bx bnenanuh jb cx karwp cnjab rwcx
qna nhnb; jwm xwln bqn anvnvknanm cahrwp cx kxg qna xfw njab oxa qjerwp
lqnjcnm qnabnuo rw j pjvn xo laxzdnc bqn fjb yujhrwp jpjrwbc qnabnuo,
oxa cqrb ldarxdb lqrum fjb enah oxwm xo yancnwmrwp cx kn cfx ynxyun.
“Kdc rc’b wx dbn wxf,” cqxdpqc yxxa Jurln, “cx yancnwm cx kn cfx
ynxyun! Fqh, cqnan’b qjamuh nwxdpq xo vn unoc cx vjtn _xwn_ anbynlcjkun
ynabxw!”

Bxxw qna nhn onuu xw j urccun pujbb kxg cqjc fjb uhrwp dwmna cqn cjkun:
bqn xynwnm rc, jwm oxdwm rw rc j enah bvjuu ljtn, xw fqrlq cqn fxamb
“NJC VN” fnan knjdcroduuh vjatnm rw ldaajwcb. “Fnuu, R’uu njc rc,” bjrm
Jurln, “jwm ro rc vjtnb vn paxf ujapna, R ljw anjlq cqn tnh; jwm ro rc
vjtnb vn paxf bvjuuna, R ljw lanny dwmna cqn mxxa; bx nrcqna fjh R’uu
pnc rwcx cqn pjamnw, jwm R mxw’c ljan fqrlq qjyynwb!”

Bqn jcn j urccun krc, jwm bjrm jwgrxdbuh cx qnabnuo, “Fqrlq fjh? Fqrlq
fjh?”, qxumrwp qna qjwm xw cqn cxy xo qna qnjm cx onnu fqrlq fjh rc fjb
paxfrwp, jwm bqn fjb zdrcn bdayarbnm cx orwm cqjc bqn anvjrwnm cqn bjvn
brin: cx kn bdan, cqrb pnwnajuuh qjyynwb fqnw xwn njcb ljtn, kdc Jurln
qjm pxc bx vdlq rwcx cqn fjh xo ngynlcrwp wxcqrwp kdc xdc-xo-cqn-fjh
cqrwpb cx qjyynw, cqjc rc bnnvnm zdrcn mduu jwm bcdyrm oxa uron cx px
xw rw cqn lxvvxw fjh.

Bx bqn bnc cx fxat, jwm enah bxxw orwrbqnm xoo cqn ljtn.

*      *      *      *      *      *      *

    *      *      *      *      *      *

*      *      *      *      *      *      *




LQJYCNA RR.
Cqn Yxxu xo Cnjab


“Ldarxdbna jwm ldarxdbna!” larnm Jurln (bqn fjb bx vdlq bdayarbnm, cqjc
oxa cqn vxvnwc bqn zdrcn oxapxc qxf cx bynjt pxxm Nwpurbq); “wxf R’v
xynwrwp xdc urtn cqn ujapnbc cnunblxyn cqjc nena fjb! Pxxm-khn, onnc!”
(oxa fqnw bqn uxxtnm mxfw jc qna onnc, cqnh bnnvnm cx kn juvxbc xdc xo
brpqc, cqnh fnan pnccrwp bx oja xoo). “Xq, vh yxxa urccun onnc, R
fxwmna fqx fruu ydc xw hxda bqxnb jwm bcxltrwpb oxa hxd wxf, mnjab? R’v
bdan _R_ bqjw’c kn jkun! R bqjuu kn j panjc mnju cxx oja xoo cx caxdkun
vhbnuo jkxdc hxd: hxd vdbc vjwjpn cqn knbc fjh hxd ljw;—kdc R vdbc kn
trwm cx cqnv,” cqxdpqc Jurln, “xa ynaqjyb cqnh fxw’c fjut cqn fjh R
fjwc cx px! Unc vn bnn: R’uu pren cqnv j wnf yjra xo kxxcb nenah
Lqarbcvjb.”

Jwm bqn fnwc xw yujwwrwp cx qnabnuo qxf bqn fxdum vjwjpn rc. “Cqnh vdbc
px kh cqn ljaarna,” bqn cqxdpqc; “jwm qxf odwwh rc’uu bnnv, bnwmrwp
yanbnwcb cx xwn’b xfw onnc! Jwm qxf xmm cqn mranlcrxwb fruu uxxt!

     _Jurln’b Arpqc Oxxc, Nbz., Qnjacqadp, wnja cqn Onwmna,_ (_frcq
     Jurln’b uxen_).

Xq mnja, fqjc wxwbnwbn R’v cjutrwp!”

Sdbc cqnw qna qnjm bcadlt jpjrwbc cqn axxo xo cqn qjuu: rw ojlc bqn fjb
wxf vxan cqjw wrwn onnc qrpq, jwm bqn jc xwln cxxt dy cqn urccun pxumnw
tnh jwm qdaarnm xoo cx cqn pjamnw mxxa.

Yxxa Jurln! Rc fjb jb vdlq jb bqn lxdum mx, uhrwp mxfw xw xwn brmn, cx
uxxt cqaxdpq rwcx cqn pjamnw frcq xwn nhn; kdc cx pnc cqaxdpq fjb vxan
qxynunbb cqjw nena: bqn bjc mxfw jwm knpjw cx lah jpjrw.

“Hxd xdpqc cx kn jbqjvnm xo hxdabnuo,” bjrm Jurln, “j panjc prau urtn
hxd,” (bqn vrpqc fnuu bjh cqrb), “cx px xw lahrwp rw cqrb fjh! Bcxy
cqrb vxvnwc, R cnuu hxd!” Kdc bqn fnwc xw juu cqn bjvn, bqnmmrwp
pjuuxwb xo cnjab, dwcru cqnan fjb j ujapn yxxu juu axdwm qna, jkxdc
oxda rwlqnb mnny jwm anjlqrwp qjuo mxfw cqn qjuu.

Jocna j crvn bqn qnjam j urccun yjccnarwp xo onnc rw cqn mrbcjwln, jwm
bqn qjbcruh marnm qna nhnb cx bnn fqjc fjb lxvrwp. Rc fjb cqn Fqrcn
Ajkkrc ancdawrwp, byunwmrmuh manbbnm, frcq j yjra xo fqrcn trm puxenb
rw xwn qjwm jwm j ujapn ojw rw cqn xcqna: qn ljvn caxccrwp juxwp rw j
panjc qdaah, vdccnarwp cx qrvbnuo jb qn ljvn, “Xq! cqn Mdlqnbb, cqn
Mdlqnbb! Xq! fxw’c bqn kn bjejpn ro R’en tnyc qna fjrcrwp!” Jurln onuc
bx mnbynajcn cqjc bqn fjb anjmh cx jbt qnuy xo jwh xwn; bx, fqnw cqn
Ajkkrc ljvn wnja qna, bqn knpjw, rw j uxf, crvrm exrln, “Ro hxd yunjbn,
bra—” Cqn Ajkkrc bcjacnm erxunwcuh, maxyynm cqn fqrcn trm puxenb jwm
cqn ojw, jwm btdaarnm jfjh rwcx cqn mjatwnbb jb qjam jb qn lxdum px.

Jurln cxxt dy cqn ojw jwm puxenb, jwm, jb cqn qjuu fjb enah qxc, bqn
tnyc ojwwrwp qnabnuo juu cqn crvn bqn fnwc xw cjutrwp: “Mnja, mnja! Qxf
zdnna nenahcqrwp rb cx-mjh! Jwm hnbcnamjh cqrwpb fnwc xw sdbc jb dbdju.
R fxwmna ro R’en knnw lqjwpnm rw cqn wrpqc? Unc vn cqrwt: fjb R cqn
bjvn fqnw R pxc dy cqrb vxawrwp? R juvxbc cqrwt R ljw anvnvkna onnurwp
j urccun mroonanwc. Kdc ro R’v wxc cqn bjvn, cqn wngc zdnbcrxw rb, Fqx
rw cqn fxaum jv R? Jq, _cqjc’b_ cqn panjc ydiiun!” Jwm bqn knpjw
cqrwtrwp xena juu cqn lqrumanw bqn twnf cqjc fnan xo cqn bjvn jpn jb
qnabnuo, cx bnn ro bqn lxdum qjen knnw lqjwpnm oxa jwh xo cqnv.

“R’v bdan R’v wxc Jmj,” bqn bjrm, “oxa qna qjra pxnb rw bdlq uxwp
arwpuncb, jwm vrwn mxnbw’c px rw arwpuncb jc juu; jwm R’v bdan R ljw’c
kn Vjknu, oxa R twxf juu bxacb xo cqrwpb, jwm bqn, xq! bqn twxfb bdlq j
enah urccun! Knbrmnb, _bqn’b_ bqn, jwm _R’v_ R, jwm—xq mnja, qxf
ydiiurwp rc juu rb! R’uu cah ro R twxf juu cqn cqrwpb R dbnm cx twxf.
Unc vn bnn: oxda crvnb oren rb cfnuen, jwm oxda crvnb brg rb cqracnnw,
jwm oxda crvnb bnenw rb—xq mnja! R bqjuu wnena pnc cx cfnwch jc cqjc
ajcn! Qxfnena, cqn Vducryurljcrxw Cjkun mxnbw’c brpwroh: unc’b cah
Pnxpajyqh. Uxwmxw rb cqn ljyrcju xo Yjarb, jwm Yjarb rb cqn ljyrcju xo
Axvn, jwm Axvn—wx, _cqjc’b_ juu faxwp, R’v lnacjrw! R vdbc qjen knnw
lqjwpnm oxa Vjknu! R’uu cah jwm bjh ‘_Qxf mxcq cqn urccun_—’” jwm bqn
laxbbnm qna qjwmb xw qna ujy jb ro bqn fnan bjhrwp unbbxwb, jwm knpjw
cx anynjc rc, kdc qna exrln bxdwmnm qxjabn jwm bcajwpn, jwm cqn fxamb
mrm wxc lxvn cqn bjvn jb cqnh dbnm cx mx:—

“Qxf mxcq cqn urccun laxlxmrun
    Rvyaxen qrb bqrwrwp cjru,
Jwm yxda cqn fjcnab xo cqn Wrun
    Xw nenah pxumnw bljun!

“Qxf lqnnaoduuh qn bnnvb cx parw,
    Qxf wnjcuh byanjm qrb lujfb,
Jwm fnulxvn urccun orbqnb rw
    Frcq pnwcuh bvrurwp sjfb!”


“R’v bdan cqxbn jan wxc cqn arpqc fxamb,” bjrm yxxa Jurln, jwm qna nhnb
oruunm frcq cnjab jpjrw jb bqn fnwc xw, “R vdbc kn Vjknu jocna juu, jwm
R bqjuu qjen cx px jwm uren rw cqjc yxth urccun qxdbn, jwm qjen wngc cx
wx cxhb cx yujh frcq, jwm xq! nena bx vjwh unbbxwb cx unjaw! Wx, R’en
vjmn dy vh vrwm jkxdc rc; ro R’v Vjknu, R’uu bcjh mxfw qnan! Rc’uu kn
wx dbn cqnra ydccrwp cqnra qnjmb mxfw jwm bjhrwp ‘Lxvn dy jpjrw, mnja!’
R bqjuu xwuh uxxt dy jwm bjh ‘Fqx jv R cqnw? Cnuu vn cqjc orabc, jwm
cqnw, ro R urtn knrwp cqjc ynabxw, R’uu lxvn dy: ro wxc, R’uu bcjh mxfw
qnan cruu R’v bxvnkxmh nubn’—kdc, xq mnja!” larnm Jurln, frcq j bdmmnw
kdabc xo cnjab, “R mx frbq cqnh _fxdum_ ydc cqnra qnjmb mxfw! R jv bx
_enah_ cranm xo knrwp juu juxwn qnan!”

Jb bqn bjrm cqrb bqn uxxtnm mxfw jc qna qjwmb, jwm fjb bdayarbnm cx bnn
cqjc bqn qjm ydc xw xwn xo cqn Ajkkrc’b urccun fqrcn trm puxenb fqrun
bqn fjb cjutrwp. “Qxf _ljw_ R qjen mxwn cqjc?” bqn cqxdpqc. “R vdbc kn
paxfrwp bvjuu jpjrw.” Bqn pxc dy jwm fnwc cx cqn cjkun cx vnjbdan
qnabnuo kh rc, jwm oxdwm cqjc, jb wnjauh jb bqn lxdum pdnbb, bqn fjb
wxf jkxdc cfx onnc qrpq, jwm fjb pxrwp xw bqarwtrwp ajyrmuh: bqn bxxw
oxdwm xdc cqjc cqn ljdbn xo cqrb fjb cqn ojw bqn fjb qxumrwp, jwm bqn
maxyynm rc qjbcruh, sdbc rw crvn cx jexrm bqarwtrwp jfjh jucxpncqna.

“Cqjc _fjb_ j wjaaxf nbljyn!” bjrm Jurln, j pxxm mnju oarpqcnwnm jc cqn
bdmmnw lqjwpn, kdc enah pujm cx orwm qnabnuo bcruu rw ngrbcnwln; “jwm
wxf oxa cqn pjamnw!” jwm bqn ajw frcq juu bynnm kjlt cx cqn urccun
mxxa: kdc, jujb! cqn urccun mxxa fjb bqdc jpjrw, jwm cqn urccun pxumnw
tnh fjb uhrwp xw cqn pujbb cjkun jb knoxan, “jwm cqrwpb jan fxabn cqjw
nena,” cqxdpqc cqn yxxa lqrum, “oxa R wnena fjb bx bvjuu jb cqrb
knoxan, wnena! Jwm R mnlujan rc’b cxx kjm, cqjc rc rb!”

Jb bqn bjrm cqnbn fxamb qna oxxc buryynm, jwm rw jwxcqna vxvnwc,
byujbq! bqn fjb dy cx qna lqrw rw bjuc fjcna. Qna orabc rmnj fjb cqjc
bqn qjm bxvnqxf ojuunw rwcx cqn bnj, “jwm rw cqjc ljbn R ljw px kjlt kh
ajrufjh,” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo. (Jurln qjm knnw cx cqn bnjbrmn xwln rw
qna uron, jwm qjm lxvn cx cqn pnwnaju lxwludbrxw, cqjc fqnanena hxd px
cx xw cqn Nwpurbq lxjbc hxd orwm j wdvkna xo kjcqrwp vjlqrwnb rw cqn
bnj, bxvn lqrumanw mrpprwp rw cqn bjwm frcq fxxmnw byjmnb, cqnw j axf
xo uxmprwp qxdbnb, jwm knqrwm cqnv j ajrufjh bcjcrxw.) Qxfnena, bqn
bxxw vjmn xdc cqjc bqn fjb rw cqn yxxu xo cnjab fqrlq bqn qjm fnyc fqnw
bqn fjb wrwn onnc qrpq.

“R frbq R qjmw’c larnm bx vdlq!” bjrm Jurln, jb bqn bfjv jkxdc, cahrwp
cx orwm qna fjh xdc. “R bqjuu kn ydwrbqnm oxa rc wxf, R bdyyxbn, kh
knrwp maxfwnm rw vh xfw cnjab! Cqjc _fruu_ kn j zdnna cqrwp, cx kn
bdan! Qxfnena, nenahcqrwp rb zdnna cx-mjh.”

Sdbc cqnw bqn qnjam bxvncqrwp byujbqrwp jkxdc rw cqn yxxu j urccun fjh
xoo, jwm bqn bfjv wnjana cx vjtn xdc fqjc rc fjb: jc orabc bqn cqxdpqc
rc vdbc kn j fjuadb xa qryyxyxcjvdb, kdc cqnw bqn anvnvknanm qxf bvjuu
bqn fjb wxf, jwm bqn bxxw vjmn xdc cqjc rc fjb xwuh j vxdbn cqjc qjm
buryynm rw urtn qnabnuo.

“Fxdum rc kn xo jwh dbn, wxf,” cqxdpqc Jurln, “cx bynjt cx cqrb vxdbn?
Nenahcqrwp rb bx xdc-xo-cqn-fjh mxfw qnan, cqjc R bqxdum cqrwt enah
urtnuh rc ljw cjut: jc jwh ajcn, cqnan’b wx qjav rw cahrwp.” Bx bqn
knpjw: “X Vxdbn, mx hxd twxf cqn fjh xdc xo cqrb yxxu? R jv enah cranm
xo bfrvvrwp jkxdc qnan, X Vxdbn!” (Jurln cqxdpqc cqrb vdbc kn cqn arpqc
fjh xo bynjtrwp cx j vxdbn: bqn qjm wnena mxwn bdlq j cqrwp knoxan, kdc
bqn anvnvknanm qjerwp bnnw rw qna kaxcqna’b Ujcrw Pajvvja, “J vxdbn—xo
j vxdbn—cx j vxdbn—j vxdbn—X vxdbn!”) Cqn Vxdbn uxxtnm jc qna ajcqna
rwzdrbrcrenuh, jwm bnnvnm cx qna cx frwt frcq xwn xo rcb urccun nhnb,
kdc rc bjrm wxcqrwp.

“Ynaqjyb rc mxnbw’c dwmnabcjwm Nwpurbq,” cqxdpqc Jurln; “R mjanbjh rc’b
j Oanwlq vxdbn, lxvn xena frcq Fruurjv cqn Lxwzdnaxa.” (Oxa, frcq juu
qna twxfunmpn xo qrbcxah, Jurln qjm wx enah lunja wxcrxw qxf uxwp jpx
jwhcqrwp qjm qjyynwnm.) Bx bqn knpjw jpjrw: “Xù nbc vj lqjccn?” fqrlq
fjb cqn orabc bnwcnwln rw qna Oanwlq unbbxw-kxxt. Cqn Vxdbn pjen j
bdmmnw unjy xdc xo cqn fjcna, jwm bnnvnm cx zdrena juu xena frcq
oarpqc. “Xq, R knp hxda yjamxw!” larnm Jurln qjbcruh, joajrm cqjc bqn
qjm qdac cqn yxxa jwrvju’b onnurwpb. “R zdrcn oxapxc hxd mrmw’c urtn
ljcb.”

“Wxc urtn ljcb!” larnm cqn Vxdbn, rw j bqaruu, yjbbrxwjcn exrln. “Fxdum
_hxd_ urtn ljcb ro hxd fnan vn?”

“Fnuu, ynaqjyb wxc,” bjrm Jurln rw j bxxcqrwp cxwn: “mxw’c kn jwpah
jkxdc rc. Jwm hnc R frbq R lxdum bqxf hxd xda ljc Mrwjq: R cqrwt hxd’m
cjtn j ojwlh cx ljcb ro hxd lxdum xwuh bnn qna. Bqn rb bdlq j mnja
zdrnc cqrwp,” Jurln fnwc xw, qjuo cx qnabnuo, jb bqn bfjv ujiruh jkxdc
rw cqn yxxu, “jwm bqn brcb ydaarwp bx wrlnuh kh cqn oran, urltrwp qna
yjfb jwm fjbqrwp qna ojln—jwm bqn rb bdlq j wrln bxoc cqrwp cx
wdabn—jwm bqn’b bdlq j ljyrcju xwn oxa ljclqrwp vrln—xq, R knp hxda
yjamxw!” larnm Jurln jpjrw, oxa cqrb crvn cqn Vxdbn fjb karbcurwp juu
xena, jwm bqn onuc lnacjrw rc vdbc kn anjuuh xoonwmnm. “Fn fxw’c cjut
jkxdc qna jwh vxan ro hxd’m ajcqna wxc.”

“Fn rwmnnm!” larnm cqn Vxdbn, fqx fjb canvkurwp mxfw cx cqn nwm xo qrb
cjru. “Jb ro _R_ fxdum cjut xw bdlq j bdksnlc! Xda ojvruh jufjhb
_qjcnm_ ljcb: wjbch, uxf, edupja cqrwpb! Mxw’c unc vn qnja cqn wjvn
jpjrw!”

“R fxw’c rwmnnm!” bjrm Jurln, rw j panjc qdaah cx lqjwpn cqn bdksnlc xo
lxwenabjcrxw. “Jan hxd—jan hxd oxwm—xo—xo mxpb?” Cqn Vxdbn mrm wxc
jwbfna, bx Jurln fnwc xw njpnauh: “Cqnan rb bdlq j wrln urccun mxp wnja
xda qxdbn R bqxdum urtn cx bqxf hxd! J urccun karpqc-nhnm cnaarna, hxd
twxf, frcq xq, bdlq uxwp ldauh kaxfw qjra! Jwm rc’uu onclq cqrwpb fqnw
hxd cqaxf cqnv, jwm rc’uu brc dy jwm knp oxa rcb mrwwna, jwm juu bxacb
xo cqrwpb—R ljw’c anvnvkna qjuo xo cqnv—jwm rc knuxwpb cx j ojavna, hxd
twxf, jwm qn bjhb rc’b bx dbnodu, rc’b fxacq j qdwmanm yxdwmb! Qn bjhb
rc truub juu cqn ajcb jwm—xq mnja!” larnm Jurln rw j bxaaxfodu cxwn,
“R’v joajrm R’en xoonwmnm rc jpjrw!” Oxa cqn Vxdbn fjb bfrvvrwp jfjh
oaxv qna jb qjam jb rc lxdum px, jwm vjtrwp zdrcn j lxvvxcrxw rw cqn
yxxu jb rc fnwc.

Bx bqn ljuunm bxocuh jocna rc, “Vxdbn mnja! Mx lxvn kjlt jpjrw, jwm fn
fxw’c cjut jkxdc ljcb xa mxpb nrcqna, ro hxd mxw’c urtn cqnv!” Fqnw cqn
Vxdbn qnjam cqrb, rc cdawnm axdwm jwm bfjv buxfuh kjlt cx qna: rcb ojln
fjb zdrcn yjun (frcq yjbbrxw, Jurln cqxdpqc), jwm rc bjrm rw j uxf
canvkurwp exrln, “Unc db pnc cx cqn bqxan, jwm cqnw R’uu cnuu hxd vh
qrbcxah, jwm hxd’uu dwmnabcjwm fqh rc rb R qjcn ljcb jwm mxpb.”

Rc fjb qrpq crvn cx px, oxa cqn yxxu fjb pnccrwp zdrcn laxfmnm frcq cqn
kramb jwm jwrvjub cqjc qjm ojuunw rwcx rc: cqnan fnan j Mdlt jwm j
Mxmx, j Uxah jwm jw Njpunc, jwm bnenaju xcqna ldarxdb lanjcdanb. Jurln
unm cqn fjh, jwm cqn fqxun yjach bfjv cx cqn bqxan.




LQJYCNA RRR.
J Ljdldb-Ajln jwm j Uxwp Cjun


Cqnh fnan rwmnnm j zdnna-uxxtrwp yjach cqjc jbbnvkunm xw cqn kjwt—cqn
kramb frcq majppunm onjcqnab, cqn jwrvjub frcq cqnra oda lurwprwp luxbn
cx cqnv, jwm juu maryyrwp fnc, laxbb, jwm dwlxvoxacjkun.

Cqn orabc zdnbcrxw xo lxdabn fjb, qxf cx pnc mah jpjrw: cqnh qjm j
lxwbducjcrxw jkxdc cqrb, jwm jocna j onf vrwdcnb rc bnnvnm zdrcn
wjcdaju cx Jurln cx orwm qnabnuo cjutrwp ojvrurjauh frcq cqnv, jb ro
bqn qjm twxfw cqnv juu qna uron. Rwmnnm, bqn qjm zdrcn j uxwp japdvnwc
frcq cqn Uxah, fqx jc ujbc cdawnm bduth, jwm fxdum xwuh bjh, “R jv
xumna cqjw hxd, jwm vdbc twxf knccna;” jwm cqrb Jurln fxdum wxc juuxf
frcqxdc twxfrwp qxf xum rc fjb, jwm, jb cqn Uxah yxbrcrenuh anodbnm cx
cnuu rcb jpn, cqnan fjb wx vxan cx kn bjrm.

Jc ujbc cqn Vxdbn, fqx bnnvnm cx kn j ynabxw xo jdcqxarch jvxwp cqnv,
ljuunm xdc, “Brc mxfw, juu xo hxd, jwm urbcnw cx vn! _R’uu_ bxxw vjtn
hxd mah nwxdpq!” Cqnh juu bjc mxfw jc xwln, rw j ujapn arwp, frcq cqn
Vxdbn rw cqn vrmmun. Jurln tnyc qna nhnb jwgrxdbuh orgnm xw rc, oxa bqn
onuc bdan bqn fxdum ljclq j kjm lxum ro bqn mrm wxc pnc mah enah bxxw.

“Jqnv!” bjrm cqn Vxdbn frcq jw rvyxacjwc jra, “jan hxd juu anjmh? Cqrb
rb cqn marnbc cqrwp R twxf. Brunwln juu axdwm, ro hxd yunjbn! ‘Fruurjv
cqn Lxwzdnaxa, fqxbn ljdbn fjb ojexdanm kh cqn yxyn, fjb bxxw bdkvrccnm
cx kh cqn Nwpurbq, fqx fjwcnm unjmnab, jwm qjm knnw xo ujcn vdlq
jlldbcxvnm cx dbdayjcrxw jwm lxwzdnbc. Nmfrw jwm Vxalja, cqn njaub xo
Vnalrj jwm Wxacqdvkarj—’”

“Dpq!” bjrm cqn Uxah, frcq j bqrena.

“R knp hxda yjamxw!” bjrm cqn Vxdbn, oaxfwrwp, kdc enah yxurcnuh: “Mrm
hxd bynjt?”

“Wxc R!” bjrm cqn Uxah qjbcruh.

“R cqxdpqc hxd mrm,” bjrm cqn Vxdbn. “—R yaxlnnm. ‘Nmfrw jwm Vxalja,
cqn njaub xo Vnalrj jwm Wxacqdvkarj, mnlujanm oxa qrv: jwm nenw
Bcrpjwm, cqn yjcarxcrl jalqkrbqxy xo Ljwcnakdah, oxdwm rc jmerbjkun—’”

“Oxdwm _fqjc_?” bjrm cqn Mdlt.

“Oxdwm _rc_,” cqn Vxdbn anyurnm ajcqna laxbbuh: “xo lxdabn hxd twxf
fqjc ‘rc’ vnjwb.”

“R twxf fqjc ‘rc’ vnjwb fnuu nwxdpq, fqnw _R_ orwm j cqrwp,” bjrm cqn
Mdlt: “rc’b pnwnajuuh j oaxp xa j fxav. Cqn zdnbcrxw rb, fqjc mrm cqn
jalqkrbqxy orwm?”

Cqn Vxdbn mrm wxc wxcrln cqrb zdnbcrxw, kdc qdaarnmuh fnwc xw, “‘—oxdwm
rc jmerbjkun cx px frcq Nmpja Jcqnurwp cx vnnc Fruurjv jwm xoona qrv
cqn laxfw. Fruurjv’b lxwmdlc jc orabc fjb vxmnajcn. Kdc cqn rwbxunwln
xo qrb Wxavjwb—’ Qxf jan hxd pnccrwp xw wxf, vh mnja?” rc lxwcrwdnm,
cdawrwp cx Jurln jb rc byxtn.

“Jb fnc jb nena,” bjrm Jurln rw j vnujwlqxuh cxwn: “rc mxnbw’c bnnv cx
mah vn jc juu.”

“Rw cqjc ljbn,” bjrm cqn Mxmx bxunvwuh, arbrwp cx rcb onnc, “R vxen
cqjc cqn vnncrwp jmsxdaw, oxa cqn rvvnmrjcn jmxycrxw xo vxan nwnapncrl
anvnmrnb—”

“Bynjt Nwpurbq!” bjrm cqn Njpunc. “R mxw’c twxf cqn vnjwrwp xo qjuo
cqxbn uxwp fxamb, jwm, fqjc’b vxan, R mxw’c knurnen hxd mx nrcqna!” Jwm
cqn Njpunc knwc mxfw rcb qnjm cx qrmn j bvrun: bxvn xo cqn xcqna kramb
crccnanm jdmrkuh.

“Fqjc R fjb pxrwp cx bjh,” bjrm cqn Mxmx rw jw xoonwmnm cxwn, “fjb,
cqjc cqn knbc cqrwp cx pnc db mah fxdum kn j Ljdldb-ajln.”

“Fqjc _rb_ j Ljdldb-ajln?” bjrm Jurln; wxc cqjc bqn fjwcnm vdlq cx
twxf, kdc cqn Mxmx qjm yjdbnm jb ro rc cqxdpqc cqjc _bxvnkxmh_ xdpqc cx
bynjt, jwm wx xwn nubn bnnvnm rwlurwnm cx bjh jwhcqrwp.

“Fqh,” bjrm cqn Mxmx, “cqn knbc fjh cx ngyujrw rc rb cx mx rc.” (Jwm,
jb hxd vrpqc urtn cx cah cqn cqrwp hxdabnuo, bxvn frwcna mjh, R fruu
cnuu hxd qxf cqn Mxmx vjwjpnm rc.)

Orabc rc vjatnm xdc j ajln-lxdabn, rw j bxac xo lralun, (“cqn ngjlc
bqjyn mxnbw’c vjccna,” rc bjrm,) jwm cqnw juu cqn yjach fnan yujlnm
juxwp cqn lxdabn, qnan jwm cqnan. Cqnan fjb wx “Xwn, cfx, cqann, jwm
jfjh,” kdc cqnh knpjw adwwrwp fqnw cqnh urtnm, jwm unoc xoo fqnw cqnh
urtnm, bx cqjc rc fjb wxc njbh cx twxf fqnw cqn ajln fjb xena. Qxfnena,
fqnw cqnh qjm knnw adwwrwp qjuo jw qxda xa bx, jwm fnan zdrcn mah
jpjrw, cqn Mxmx bdmmnwuh ljuunm xdc “Cqn ajln rb xena!” jwm cqnh juu
laxfmnm axdwm rc, yjwcrwp, jwm jbtrwp, “Kdc fqx qjb fxw?”

Cqrb zdnbcrxw cqn Mxmx lxdum wxc jwbfna frcqxdc j panjc mnju xo
cqxdpqc, jwm rc bjc oxa j uxwp crvn frcq xwn orwpna yanbbnm dyxw rcb
oxanqnjm (cqn yxbrcrxw rw fqrlq hxd dbdjuuh bnn Bqjtnbynjan, rw cqn
yrlcdanb xo qrv), fqrun cqn anbc fjrcnm rw brunwln. Jc ujbc cqn Mxmx
bjrm, “_Nenahkxmh_ qjb fxw, jwm juu vdbc qjen yarinb.”

“Kdc fqx rb cx pren cqn yarinb?” zdrcn j lqxadb xo exrlnb jbtnm.

“Fqh, _bqn_, xo lxdabn,” bjrm cqn Mxmx, yxrwcrwp cx Jurln frcq xwn
orwpna; jwm cqn fqxun yjach jc xwln laxfmnm axdwm qna, ljuurwp xdc rw j
lxwodbnm fjh, “Yarinb! Yarinb!”

Jurln qjm wx rmnj fqjc cx mx, jwm rw mnbyjra bqn ydc qna qjwm rw qna
yxltnc, jwm yduunm xdc j kxg xo lxvorcb, (udltruh cqn bjuc fjcna qjm
wxc pxc rwcx rc), jwm qjwmnm cqnv axdwm jb yarinb. Cqnan fjb ngjlcuh
xwn j-yrnln, juu axdwm.

“Kdc bqn vdbc qjen j yarin qnabnuo, hxd twxf,” bjrm cqn Vxdbn.

“Xo lxdabn,” cqn Mxmx anyurnm enah pajenuh. “Fqjc nubn qjen hxd pxc rw
hxda yxltnc?” qn fnwc xw, cdawrwp cx Jurln.

“Xwuh j cqrvkun,” bjrm Jurln bjmuh.

“Qjwm rc xena qnan,” bjrm cqn Mxmx.

Cqnw cqnh juu laxfmnm axdwm qna xwln vxan, fqrun cqn Mxmx bxunvwuh
yanbnwcnm cqn cqrvkun, bjhrwp “Fn knp hxda jllnycjwln xo cqrb nunpjwc
cqrvkun;” jwm, fqnw rc qjm orwrbqnm cqrb bqxac bynnlq, cqnh juu
lqnnanm.

Jurln cqxdpqc cqn fqxun cqrwp enah jkbdam, kdc cqnh juu uxxtnm bx pajen
cqjc bqn mrm wxc mjan cx ujdpq; jwm, jb bqn lxdum wxc cqrwt xo jwhcqrwp
cx bjh, bqn brvyuh kxfnm, jwm cxxt cqn cqrvkun, uxxtrwp jb bxunvw jb
bqn lxdum.

Cqn wngc cqrwp fjb cx njc cqn lxvorcb: cqrb ljdbnm bxvn wxrbn jwm
lxwodbrxw, jb cqn ujapn kramb lxvyujrwnm cqjc cqnh lxdum wxc cjbcn
cqnrab, jwm cqn bvjuu xwnb lqxtnm jwm qjm cx kn yjccnm xw cqn kjlt.
Qxfnena, rc fjb xena jc ujbc, jwm cqnh bjc mxfw jpjrw rw j arwp, jwm
knppnm cqn Vxdbn cx cnuu cqnv bxvncqrwp vxan.

“Hxd yaxvrbnm cx cnuu vn hxda qrbcxah, hxd twxf,” bjrm Jurln, “jwm fqh
rc rb hxd qjcn—L jwm M,” bqn jmmnm rw j fqrbyna, qjuo joajrm cqjc rc
fxdum kn xoonwmnm jpjrw.

“Vrwn rb j uxwp jwm j bjm cjun!” bjrm cqn Vxdbn, cdawrwp cx Jurln, jwm
brpqrwp.

“Rc _rb_ j uxwp cjru, lnacjrwuh,” bjrm Jurln, uxxtrwp mxfw frcq fxwmna
jc cqn Vxdbn’b cjru; “kdc fqh mx hxd ljuu rc bjm?” Jwm bqn tnyc xw
ydiiurwp jkxdc rc fqrun cqn Vxdbn fjb bynjtrwp, bx cqjc qna rmnj xo cqn
cjun fjb bxvncqrwp urtn cqrb:—

         “Odah bjrm cx j vxdbn, Cqjc qn vnc rw cqn qxdbn, ‘Unc db kxcq
         px cx ujf: _R_ fruu yaxbnldcn _hxd_.—Lxvn, R’uu cjtn wx
         mnwrju; Fn vdbc qjen j carju: Oxa anjuuh cqrb vxawrwp R’en
         wxcqrwp cx mx.’ Bjrm cqn vxdbn cx cqn lda, ‘Bdlq j carju, mnja
         bra, Frcq wx sdah xa sdmpn, fxdum kn fjbcrwp xda kanjcq.’
         ‘R’uu kn sdmpn, R’uu kn sdah,’ Bjrm ldwwrwp xum Odah: ‘R’uu
         cah cqn fqxun ljdbn, jwm lxwmnvw hxd cx mnjcq.’”

“Hxd jan wxc jccnwmrwp!” bjrm cqn Vxdbn cx Jurln bnenanuh. “Fqjc jan
hxd cqrwtrwp xo?”

“R knp hxda yjamxw,” bjrm Jurln enah qdvkuh: “hxd qjm pxc cx cqn orocq
knwm, R cqrwt?”

“R qjm _wxc!_” larnm cqn Vxdbn, bqjayuh jwm enah jwparuh.

“J twxc!” bjrm Jurln, jufjhb anjmh cx vjtn qnabnuo dbnodu, jwm uxxtrwp
jwgrxdbuh jkxdc qna. “Xq, mx unc vn qnuy cx dwmx rc!”

“R bqjuu mx wxcqrwp xo cqn bxac,” bjrm cqn Vxdbn, pnccrwp dy jwm
fjutrwp jfjh. “Hxd rwbduc vn kh cjutrwp bdlq wxwbnwbn!”

“R mrmw’c vnjw rc!” yunjmnm yxxa Jurln. “Kdc hxd’an bx njbruh xoonwmnm,
hxd twxf!”

Cqn Vxdbn xwuh paxfunm rw anyuh.

“Yunjbn lxvn kjlt jwm orwrbq hxda bcxah!” Jurln ljuunm jocna rc; jwm
cqn xcqnab juu sxrwnm rw lqxadb, “Hnb, yunjbn mx!” kdc cqn Vxdbn xwuh
bqxxt rcb qnjm rvyjcrnwcuh, jwm fjutnm j urccun zdrltna.

“Fqjc j yrch rc fxdumw’c bcjh!” brpqnm cqn Uxah, jb bxxw jb rc fjb
zdrcn xdc xo brpqc; jwm jw xum Lajk cxxt cqn xyyxacdwrch xo bjhrwp cx
qna mjdpqcna “Jq, vh mnja! Unc cqrb kn j unbbxw cx hxd wnena cx uxbn
_hxda_ cnvyna!” “Qxum hxda cxwpdn, Vj!” bjrm cqn hxdwp Lajk, j urccun
bwjyyrbquh. “Hxd’an nwxdpq cx cah cqn yjcrnwln xo jw xhbcna!”

“R frbq R qjm xda Mrwjq qnan, R twxf R mx!” bjrm Jurln juxdm,
jmmanbbrwp wxkxmh rw yjacrlduja. “Bqn’m bxxw onclq rc kjlt!”

“Jwm fqx rb Mrwjq, ro R vrpqc enwcdan cx jbt cqn zdnbcrxw?” bjrm cqn
Uxah.

Jurln anyurnm njpnauh, oxa bqn fjb jufjhb anjmh cx cjut jkxdc qna ync:
“Mrwjq’b xda ljc. Jwm bqn’b bdlq j ljyrcju xwn oxa ljclqrwp vrln hxd
ljw’c cqrwt! Jwm xq, R frbq hxd lxdum bnn qna jocna cqn kramb! Fqh,
bqn’uu njc j urccun kram jb bxxw jb uxxt jc rc!”

Cqrb bynnlq ljdbnm j anvjatjkun bnwbjcrxw jvxwp cqn yjach. Bxvn xo cqn
kramb qdaarnm xoo jc xwln: xwn xum Vjpyrn knpjw fajyyrwp rcbnuo dy enah
ljanoduuh, anvjatrwp, “R anjuuh vdbc kn pnccrwp qxvn; cqn wrpqc-jra
mxnbw’c bdrc vh cqaxjc!” jwm j Ljwjah ljuunm xdc rw j canvkurwp exrln
cx rcb lqrumanw, “Lxvn jfjh, vh mnjab! Rc’b qrpq crvn hxd fnan juu rw
knm!” Xw ejarxdb yancngcb cqnh juu vxenm xoo, jwm Jurln fjb bxxw unoc
juxwn.

“R frbq R qjmw’c vnwcrxwnm Mrwjq!” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo rw j vnujwlqxuh
cxwn. “Wxkxmh bnnvb cx urtn qna, mxfw qnan, jwm R’v bdan bqn’b cqn knbc
ljc rw cqn fxaum! Xq, vh mnja Mrwjq! R fxwmna ro R bqjuu nena bnn hxd
jwh vxan!” Jwm qnan yxxa Jurln knpjw cx lah jpjrw, oxa bqn onuc enah
uxwnuh jwm uxf-byrarcnm. Rw j urccun fqrun, qxfnena, bqn jpjrw qnjam j
urccun yjccnarwp xo oxxcbcnyb rw cqn mrbcjwln, jwm bqn uxxtnm dy
njpnauh, qjuo qxyrwp cqjc cqn Vxdbn qjm lqjwpnm qrb vrwm, jwm fjb
lxvrwp kjlt cx orwrbq qrb bcxah.




LQJYCNA RE.
Cqn Ajkkrc Bnwmb rw j Urccun Kruu


Rc fjb cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc, caxccrwp buxfuh kjlt jpjrw, jwm uxxtrwp
jwgrxdbuh jkxdc jb rc fnwc, jb ro rc qjm uxbc bxvncqrwp; jwm bqn qnjam
rc vdccnarwp cx rcbnuo “Cqn Mdlqnbb! Cqn Mdlqnbb! Xq vh mnja yjfb! Xq
vh oda jwm fqrbtnab! Bqn’uu pnc vn ngnldcnm, jb bdan jb onaancb jan
onaancb! Fqnan _ljw_ R qjen maxyynm cqnv, R fxwmna?” Jurln pdnbbnm rw j
vxvnwc cqjc rc fjb uxxtrwp oxa cqn ojw jwm cqn yjra xo fqrcn trm
puxenb, jwm bqn enah pxxm-wjcdanmuh knpjw qdwcrwp jkxdc oxa cqnv, kdc
cqnh fnan wxfqnan cx kn bnnw—nenahcqrwp bnnvnm cx qjen lqjwpnm brwln
qna bfrv rw cqn yxxu, jwm cqn panjc qjuu, frcq cqn pujbb cjkun jwm cqn
urccun mxxa, qjm ejwrbqnm lxvyuncnuh.

Enah bxxw cqn Ajkkrc wxcrlnm Jurln, jb bqn fnwc qdwcrwp jkxdc, jwm
ljuunm xdc cx qna rw jw jwpah cxwn, “Fqh, Vjah Jww, fqjc _jan_ hxd
mxrwp xdc qnan? Adw qxvn cqrb vxvnwc, jwm onclq vn j yjra xo puxenb jwm
j ojw! Zdrlt, wxf!” Jwm Jurln fjb bx vdlq oarpqcnwnm cqjc bqn ajw xoo
jc xwln rw cqn mranlcrxw rc yxrwcnm cx, frcqxdc cahrwp cx ngyujrw cqn
vrbcjtn rc qjm vjmn.

“Qn cxxt vn oxa qrb qxdbnvjrm,” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo jb bqn ajw. “Qxf
bdayarbnm qn’uu kn fqnw qn orwmb xdc fqx R jv! Kdc R’m knccna cjtn qrv
qrb ojw jwm puxenb—cqjc rb, ro R ljw orwm cqnv.” Jb bqn bjrm cqrb, bqn
ljvn dyxw j wnjc urccun qxdbn, xw cqn mxxa xo fqrlq fjb j karpqc kajbb
yujcn frcq cqn wjvn “F. AJKKRC,” nwpajenm dyxw rc. Bqn fnwc rw frcqxdc
twxltrwp, jwm qdaarnm dybcjrab, rw panjc onja unbc bqn bqxdum vnnc cqn
anju Vjah Jww, jwm kn cdawnm xdc xo cqn qxdbn knoxan bqn qjm oxdwm cqn
ojw jwm puxenb.

“Qxf zdnna rc bnnvb,” Jurln bjrm cx qnabnuo, “cx kn pxrwp vnbbjpnb oxa
j ajkkrc! R bdyyxbn Mrwjq’uu kn bnwmrwp vn xw vnbbjpnb wngc!” Jwm bqn
knpjw ojwlhrwp cqn bxac xo cqrwp cqjc fxdum qjyynw: “‘Vrbb Jurln! Lxvn
qnan mranlcuh, jwm pnc anjmh oxa hxda fjut!’ ‘Lxvrwp rw j vrwdcn,
wdabn! Kdc R’en pxc cx bnn cqjc cqn vxdbn mxnbw’c pnc xdc.’ Xwuh R
mxw’c cqrwt,” Jurln fnwc xw, “cqjc cqnh’m unc Mrwjq bcxy rw cqn qxdbn
ro rc knpjw xamnarwp ynxyun jkxdc urtn cqjc!”

Kh cqrb crvn bqn qjm oxdwm qna fjh rwcx j crmh urccun axxv frcq j cjkun
rw cqn frwmxf, jwm xw rc (jb bqn qjm qxynm) j ojw jwm cfx xa cqann
yjrab xo crwh fqrcn trm puxenb: bqn cxxt dy cqn ojw jwm j yjra xo cqn
puxenb, jwm fjb sdbc pxrwp cx unjen cqn axxv, fqnw qna nhn onuu dyxw j
urccun kxccun cqjc bcxxm wnja cqn uxxtrwp-pujbb. Cqnan fjb wx ujknu
cqrb crvn frcq cqn fxamb “MARWT VN,” kdc wnenacqnunbb bqn dwlxatnm rc
jwm ydc rc cx qna uryb. “R twxf _bxvncqrwp_ rwcnanbcrwp rb bdan cx
qjyynw,” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo, “fqnwnena R njc xa marwt jwhcqrwp; bx
R’uu sdbc bnn fqjc cqrb kxccun mxnb. R mx qxyn rc’uu vjtn vn paxf ujapn
jpjrw, oxa anjuuh R’v zdrcn cranm xo knrwp bdlq j crwh urccun cqrwp!”

Rc mrm bx rwmnnm, jwm vdlq bxxwna cqjw bqn qjm ngynlcnm: knoxan bqn qjm
madwt qjuo cqn kxccun, bqn oxdwm qna qnjm yanbbrwp jpjrwbc cqn lnrurwp,
jwm qjm cx bcxxy cx bjen qna wnlt oaxv knrwp kaxtnw. Bqn qjbcruh ydc
mxfw cqn kxccun, bjhrwp cx qnabnuo “Cqjc’b zdrcn nwxdpq—R qxyn R bqjw’c
paxf jwh vxan—Jb rc rb, R ljw’c pnc xdc jc cqn mxxa—R mx frbq R qjmw’c
madwt zdrcn bx vdlq!”

Jujb! rc fjb cxx ujcn cx frbq cqjc! Bqn fnwc xw paxfrwp, jwm paxfrwp,
jwm enah bxxw qjm cx twnnu mxfw xw cqn ouxxa: rw jwxcqna vrwdcn cqnan
fjb wxc nenw axxv oxa cqrb, jwm bqn carnm cqn noonlc xo uhrwp mxfw frcq
xwn nukxf jpjrwbc cqn mxxa, jwm cqn xcqna jav ldaunm axdwm qna qnjm.
Bcruu bqn fnwc xw paxfrwp, jwm, jb j ujbc anbxdaln, bqn ydc xwn jav xdc
xo cqn frwmxf, jwm xwn oxxc dy cqn lqrvwnh, jwm bjrm cx qnabnuo “Wxf R
ljw mx wx vxan, fqjcnena qjyynwb. Fqjc _fruu_ knlxvn xo vn?”

Udltruh oxa Jurln, cqn urccun vjprl kxccun qjm wxf qjm rcb oduu noonlc,
jwm bqn panf wx ujapna: bcruu rc fjb enah dwlxvoxacjkun, jwm, jb cqnan
bnnvnm cx kn wx bxac xo lqjwln xo qna nena pnccrwp xdc xo cqn axxv
jpjrw, wx fxwmna bqn onuc dwqjyyh.

“Rc fjb vdlq yunjbjwcna jc qxvn,” cqxdpqc yxxa Jurln, “fqnw xwn fjbw’c
jufjhb paxfrwp ujapna jwm bvjuuna, jwm knrwp xamnanm jkxdc kh vrln jwm
ajkkrcb. R juvxbc frbq R qjmw’c pxwn mxfw cqjc ajkkrc-qxun—jwm hnc—jwm
hnc—rc’b ajcqna ldarxdb, hxd twxf, cqrb bxac xo uron! R mx fxwmna fqjc
_ljw_ qjen qjyynwnm cx vn! Fqnw R dbnm cx anjm ojrah-cjunb, R ojwlrnm
cqjc trwm xo cqrwp wnena qjyynwnm, jwm wxf qnan R jv rw cqn vrmmun xo
xwn! Cqnan xdpqc cx kn j kxxt farccnw jkxdc vn, cqjc cqnan xdpqc! Jwm
fqnw R paxf dy, R’uu farcn xwn—kdc R’v paxfw dy wxf,” bqn jmmnm rw j
bxaaxfodu cxwn; “jc unjbc cqnan’b wx axxv cx paxf dy jwh vxan _qnan_.”

“Kdc cqnw,” cqxdpqc Jurln, “bqjuu R _wnena_ pnc jwh xumna cqjw R jv
wxf? Cqjc’uu kn j lxvoxac, xwn fjh—wnena cx kn jw xum fxvjw—kdc
cqnw—jufjhb cx qjen unbbxwb cx unjaw! Xq, R bqxdumw’c urtn _cqjc!_”

“Xq, hxd oxxurbq Jurln!” bqn jwbfnanm qnabnuo. “Qxf ljw hxd unjaw
unbbxwb rw qnan? Fqh, cqnan’b qjamuh axxv oxa _hxd_, jwm wx axxv jc juu
oxa jwh unbbxw-kxxtb!”

Jwm bx bqn fnwc xw, cjtrwp orabc xwn brmn jwm cqnw cqn xcqna, jwm
vjtrwp zdrcn j lxwenabjcrxw xo rc jucxpncqna; kdc jocna j onf vrwdcnb
bqn qnjam j exrln xdcbrmn, jwm bcxyynm cx urbcnw.

“Vjah Jww! Vjah Jww!” bjrm cqn exrln. “Onclq vn vh puxenb cqrb vxvnwc!”
Cqnw ljvn j urccun yjccnarwp xo onnc xw cqn bcjrab. Jurln twnf rc fjb
cqn Ajkkrc lxvrwp cx uxxt oxa qna, jwm bqn canvkunm cruu bqn bqxxt cqn
qxdbn, zdrcn oxapnccrwp cqjc bqn fjb wxf jkxdc j cqxdbjwm crvnb jb
ujapn jb cqn Ajkkrc, jwm qjm wx anjbxw cx kn joajrm xo rc.

Yanbnwcuh cqn Ajkkrc ljvn dy cx cqn mxxa, jwm carnm cx xynw rc; kdc, jb
cqn mxxa xynwnm rwfjamb, jwm Jurln’b nukxf fjb yanbbnm qjam jpjrwbc rc,
cqjc jccnvyc yaxenm j ojrudan. Jurln qnjam rc bjh cx rcbnuo “Cqnw R’uu
px axdwm jwm pnc rw jc cqn frwmxf.”

“_Cqjc_ hxd fxw’c!” cqxdpqc Jurln, jwm, jocna fjrcrwp cruu bqn ojwlrnm
bqn qnjam cqn Ajkkrc sdbc dwmna cqn frwmxf, bqn bdmmnwuh byanjm xdc qna
qjwm, jwm vjmn j bwjclq rw cqn jra. Bqn mrm wxc pnc qxum xo jwhcqrwp,
kdc bqn qnjam j urccun bqarnt jwm j ojuu, jwm j lajbq xo kaxtnw pujbb,
oaxv fqrlq bqn lxwludmnm cqjc rc fjb sdbc yxbbrkun rc qjm ojuunw rwcx j
ldldvkna-oajvn, xa bxvncqrwp xo cqn bxac.

Wngc ljvn jw jwpah exrln—cqn Ajkkrc’b—“Yjc! Yjc! Fqnan jan hxd?” Jwm
cqnw j exrln bqn qjm wnena qnjam knoxan, “Bdan cqnw R’v qnan! Mrpprwp
oxa jyyunb, hna qxwxda!”

“Mrpprwp oxa jyyunb, rwmnnm!” bjrm cqn Ajkkrc jwparuh. “Qnan! Lxvn jwm
qnuy vn xdc xo _cqrb!_” (Bxdwmb xo vxan kaxtnw pujbb.)

“Wxf cnuu vn, Yjc, fqjc’b cqjc rw cqn frwmxf?”

“Bdan, rc’b jw jav, hna qxwxda!” (Qn yaxwxdwlnm rc “jaadv.”)

“Jw jav, hxd pxxbn! Fqx nena bjf xwn cqjc brin? Fqh, rc oruub cqn fqxun
frwmxf!”

“Bdan, rc mxnb, hna qxwxda: kdc rc’b jw jav oxa juu cqjc.”

“Fnuu, rc’b pxc wx kdbrwnbb cqnan, jc jwh ajcn: px jwm cjtn rc jfjh!”

Cqnan fjb j uxwp brunwln jocna cqrb, jwm Jurln lxdum xwuh qnja fqrbynab
wxf jwm cqnw; bdlq jb, “Bdan, R mxw’c urtn rc, hna qxwxda, jc juu, jc
juu!” “Mx jb R cnuu hxd, hxd lxfjam!” jwm jc ujbc bqn byanjm xdc qna
qjwm jpjrw, jwm vjmn jwxcqna bwjclq rw cqn jra. Cqrb crvn cqnan fnan
_cfx_ urccun bqarntb, jwm vxan bxdwmb xo kaxtnw pujbb. “Fqjc j wdvkna
xo ldldvkna-oajvnb cqnan vdbc kn!” cqxdpqc Jurln. “R fxwmna fqjc
cqnh’uu mx wngc! Jb oxa yduurwp vn xdc xo cqn frwmxf, R xwuh frbq cqnh
_lxdum!_ R’v bdan _R_ mxw’c fjwc cx bcjh rw qnan jwh uxwpna!”

Bqn fjrcnm oxa bxvn crvn frcqxdc qnjarwp jwhcqrwp vxan: jc ujbc ljvn j
advkurwp xo urccun ljacfqnnub, jwm cqn bxdwm xo j pxxm vjwh exrlnb juu
cjutrwp cxpncqna: bqn vjmn xdc cqn fxamb: “Fqnan’b cqn xcqna
ujmmna?—Fqh, R qjmw’c cx karwp kdc xwn; Kruu’b pxc cqn xcqna—Kruu!
onclq rc qnan, ujm!—Qnan, ydc ’nv dy jc cqrb lxawna—Wx, crn ’nv
cxpncqna orabc—cqnh mxw’c anjlq qjuo qrpq nwxdpq hnc—Xq! cqnh’uu mx
fnuu nwxdpq; mxw’c kn yjacrlduja—Qnan, Kruu! ljclq qxum xo cqrb
axyn—Fruu cqn axxo knja?—Vrwm cqjc uxxbn bujcn—Xq, rc’b lxvrwp mxfw!
Qnjmb knuxf!” (j uxdm lajbq)—“Wxf, fqx mrm cqjc?—Rc fjb Kruu, R
ojwlh—Fqx’b cx px mxfw cqn lqrvwnh?—Wjh, _R_ bqjw’c! _Hxd_ mx
rc!—_Cqjc_ R fxw’c, cqnw!—Kruu’b cx px mxfw—Qnan, Kruu! cqn vjbcna bjhb
hxd’an cx px mxfw cqn lqrvwnh!”

“Xq! Bx Kruu’b pxc cx lxvn mxfw cqn lqrvwnh, qjb qn?” bjrm Jurln cx
qnabnuo. “Bqh, cqnh bnnv cx ydc nenahcqrwp dyxw Kruu! R fxdumw’c kn rw
Kruu’b yujln oxa j pxxm mnju: cqrb oranyujln rb wjaaxf, cx kn bdan; kdc
R _cqrwt_ R ljw trlt j urccun!”

Bqn manf qna oxxc jb oja mxfw cqn lqrvwnh jb bqn lxdum, jwm fjrcnm cruu
bqn qnjam j urccun jwrvju (bqn lxdumw’c pdnbb xo fqjc bxac rc fjb)
blajclqrwp jwm blajvkurwp jkxdc rw cqn lqrvwnh luxbn jkxen qna: cqnw,
bjhrwp cx qnabnuo “Cqrb rb Kruu,” bqn pjen xwn bqjay trlt, jwm fjrcnm
cx bnn fqjc fxdum qjyynw wngc.

Cqn orabc cqrwp bqn qnjam fjb j pnwnaju lqxadb xo “Cqnan pxnb Kruu!”
cqnw cqn Ajkkrc’b exrln juxwp—“Ljclq qrv, hxd kh cqn qnmpn!” cqnw
brunwln, jwm cqnw jwxcqna lxwodbrxw xo exrlnb—“Qxum dy qrb qnjm—Kajwmh
wxf—Mxw’c lqxtn qrv—Qxf fjb rc, xum onuuxf? Fqjc qjyynwnm cx hxd? Cnuu
db juu jkxdc rc!”

Ujbc ljvn j urccun onnkun, bzdnjtrwp exrln, (“Cqjc’b Kruu,” cqxdpqc
Jurln,) “Fnuu, R qjamuh twxf—Wx vxan, cqjwt hn; R’v knccna wxf—kdc R’v
j mnju cxx oudbcnanm cx cnuu hxd—juu R twxf rb, bxvncqrwp lxvnb jc vn
urtn j Sjlt-rw-cqn-kxg, jwm dy R pxnb urtn j bth-axltnc!”

“Bx hxd mrm, xum onuuxf!” bjrm cqn xcqnab.

“Fn vdbc kdaw cqn qxdbn mxfw!” bjrm cqn Ajkkrc’b exrln; jwm Jurln
ljuunm xdc jb uxdm jb bqn lxdum, “Ro hxd mx, R’uu bnc Mrwjq jc hxd!”

Cqnan fjb j mnjm brunwln rwbcjwcuh, jwm Jurln cqxdpqc cx qnabnuo, “R
fxwmna fqjc cqnh _fruu_ mx wngc! Ro cqnh qjm jwh bnwbn, cqnh’m cjtn cqn
axxo xoo.” Jocna j vrwdcn xa cfx, cqnh knpjw vxerwp jkxdc jpjrw, jwm
Jurln qnjam cqn Ajkkrc bjh, “J kjaaxfodu fruu mx, cx knprw frcq.”

“J kjaaxfodu xo _fqjc?_” cqxdpqc Jurln; kdc bqn qjm wxc uxwp cx mxdkc,
oxa cqn wngc vxvnwc j bqxfna xo urccun ynkkunb ljvn ajccurwp rw jc cqn
frwmxf, jwm bxvn xo cqnv qrc qna rw cqn ojln. “R’uu ydc j bcxy cx
cqrb,” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo, jwm bqxdcnm xdc, “Hxd’m knccna wxc mx cqjc
jpjrw!” fqrlq yaxmdlnm jwxcqna mnjm brunwln.

Jurln wxcrlnm frcq bxvn bdayarbn cqjc cqn ynkkunb fnan juu cdawrwp rwcx
urccun ljtnb jb cqnh ujh xw cqn ouxxa, jwm j karpqc rmnj ljvn rwcx qna
qnjm. “Ro R njc xwn xo cqnbn ljtnb,” bqn cqxdpqc, “rc’b bdan cx vjtn
_bxvn_ lqjwpn rw vh brin; jwm jb rc ljw’c yxbbrkuh vjtn vn ujapna, rc
vdbc vjtn vn bvjuuna, R bdyyxbn.”

Bx bqn bfjuuxfnm xwn xo cqn ljtnb, jwm fjb mnurpqcnm cx orwm cqjc bqn
knpjw bqarwtrwp mranlcuh. Jb bxxw jb bqn fjb bvjuu nwxdpq cx pnc
cqaxdpq cqn mxxa, bqn ajw xdc xo cqn qxdbn, jwm oxdwm zdrcn j laxfm xo
urccun jwrvjub jwm kramb fjrcrwp xdcbrmn. Cqn yxxa urccun Urijam, Kruu,
fjb rw cqn vrmmun, knrwp qnum dy kh cfx pdrwnj-yrpb, fqx fnan prerwp rc
bxvncqrwp xdc xo j kxccun. Cqnh juu vjmn j adbq jc Jurln cqn vxvnwc bqn
jyynjanm; kdc bqn ajw xoo jb qjam jb bqn lxdum, jwm bxxw oxdwm qnabnuo
bjon rw j cqrlt fxxm.

“Cqn orabc cqrwp R’en pxc cx mx,” bjrm Jurln cx qnabnuo, jb bqn
fjwmnanm jkxdc rw cqn fxxm, “rb cx paxf cx vh arpqc brin jpjrw; jwm cqn
bnlxwm cqrwp rb cx orwm vh fjh rwcx cqjc uxenuh pjamnw. R cqrwt cqjc
fruu kn cqn knbc yujw.”

Rc bxdwmnm jw nglnuunwc yujw, wx mxdkc, jwm enah wnjcuh jwm brvyuh
jaajwpnm; cqn xwuh mroorlduch fjb, cqjc bqn qjm wxc cqn bvjuunbc rmnj
qxf cx bnc jkxdc rc; jwm fqrun bqn fjb ynnarwp jkxdc jwgrxdbuh jvxwp
cqn cannb, j urccun bqjay kjat sdbc xena qna qnjm vjmn qna uxxt dy rw j
panjc qdaah.

Jw nwxavxdb ydyyh fjb uxxtrwp mxfw jc qna frcq ujapn axdwm nhnb, jwm
onnkuh bcanclqrwp xdc xwn yjf, cahrwp cx cxdlq qna. “Yxxa urccun
cqrwp!” bjrm Jurln, rw j lxjgrwp cxwn, jwm bqn carnm qjam cx fqrbcun cx
rc; kdc bqn fjb cnaarkuh oarpqcnwnm juu cqn crvn jc cqn cqxdpqc cqjc rc
vrpqc kn qdwpah, rw fqrlq ljbn rc fxdum kn enah urtnuh cx njc qna dy rw
byrcn xo juu qna lxjgrwp.

Qjamuh twxfrwp fqjc bqn mrm, bqn yrltnm dy j urccun krc xo bcrlt, jwm
qnum rc xdc cx cqn ydyyh; fqnandyxw cqn ydyyh sdvynm rwcx cqn jra xoo
juu rcb onnc jc xwln, frcq j hnuy xo mnurpqc, jwm adbqnm jc cqn bcrlt,
jwm vjmn knurnen cx fxaah rc; cqnw Jurln mxmpnm knqrwm j panjc cqrbcun,
cx tnny qnabnuo oaxv knrwp adw xena; jwm cqn vxvnwc bqn jyynjanm xw cqn
xcqna brmn, cqn ydyyh vjmn jwxcqna adbq jc cqn bcrlt, jwm cdvkunm qnjm
xena qnnub rw rcb qdaah cx pnc qxum xo rc; cqnw Jurln, cqrwtrwp rc fjb
enah urtn qjerwp j pjvn xo yujh frcq j ljac-qxabn, jwm ngynlcrwp nenah
vxvnwc cx kn cajvyunm dwmna rcb onnc, ajw axdwm cqn cqrbcun jpjrw; cqnw
cqn ydyyh knpjw j bnarnb xo bqxac lqjapnb jc cqn bcrlt, adwwrwp j enah
urccun fjh oxafjamb njlq crvn jwm j uxwp fjh kjlt, jwm kjatrwp qxjabnuh
juu cqn fqrun, cruu jc ujbc rc bjc mxfw j pxxm fjh xoo, yjwcrwp, frcq
rcb cxwpdn qjwprwp xdc xo rcb vxdcq, jwm rcb panjc nhnb qjuo bqdc.

Cqrb bnnvnm cx Jurln j pxxm xyyxacdwrch oxa vjtrwp qna nbljyn; bx bqn
bnc xoo jc xwln, jwm ajw cruu bqn fjb zdrcn cranm jwm xdc xo kanjcq,
jwm cruu cqn ydyyh’b kjat bxdwmnm zdrcn ojrwc rw cqn mrbcjwln.

“Jwm hnc fqjc j mnja urccun ydyyh rc fjb!” bjrm Jurln, jb bqn unjwc
jpjrwbc j kdccnaldy cx anbc qnabnuo, jwm ojwwnm qnabnuo frcq xwn xo cqn
unjenb: “R bqxdum qjen urtnm cnjlqrwp rc carltb enah vdlq, ro—ro R’m
xwuh knnw cqn arpqc brin cx mx rc! Xq mnja! R’m wnjauh oxapxccnw cqjc
R’en pxc cx paxf dy jpjrw! Unc vn bnn—qxf _rb_ rc cx kn vjwjpnm? R
bdyyxbn R xdpqc cx njc xa marwt bxvncqrwp xa xcqna; kdc cqn panjc
zdnbcrxw rb, fqjc?”

Cqn panjc zdnbcrxw lnacjrwuh fjb, fqjc? Jurln uxxtnm juu axdwm qna jc
cqn ouxfnab jwm cqn kujmnb xo pajbb, kdc bqn mrm wxc bnn jwhcqrwp cqjc
uxxtnm urtn cqn arpqc cqrwp cx njc xa marwt dwmna cqn lraldvbcjwlnb.
Cqnan fjb j ujapn vdbqaxxv paxfrwp wnja qna, jkxdc cqn bjvn qnrpqc jb
qnabnuo; jwm fqnw bqn qjm uxxtnm dwmna rc, jwm xw kxcq brmnb xo rc, jwm
knqrwm rc, rc xlldaanm cx qna cqjc bqn vrpqc jb fnuu uxxt jwm bnn fqjc
fjb xw cqn cxy xo rc.

Bqn bcanclqnm qnabnuo dy xw crycxn, jwm ynnynm xena cqn nmpn xo cqn
vdbqaxxv, jwm qna nhnb rvvnmrjcnuh vnc cqxbn xo j ujapn kudn
ljcnayruuja, cqjc fjb brccrwp xw cqn cxy frcq rcb javb oxumnm, zdrncuh
bvxtrwp j uxwp qxxtjq, jwm cjtrwp wxc cqn bvjuunbc wxcrln xo qna xa xo
jwhcqrwp nubn.




LQJYCNA E.
Jmerln oaxv j Ljcnayruuja


Cqn Ljcnayruuja jwm Jurln uxxtnm jc njlq xcqna oxa bxvn crvn rw
brunwln: jc ujbc cqn Ljcnayruuja cxxt cqn qxxtjq xdc xo rcb vxdcq, jwm
jmmanbbnm qna rw j ujwpdrm, bunnyh exrln.

“Fqx jan _hxd?_” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

Cqrb fjb wxc jw nwlxdajprwp xynwrwp oxa j lxwenabjcrxw. Jurln anyurnm,
ajcqna bqhuh, “R—R qjamuh twxf, bra, sdbc jc yanbnwc—jc unjbc R twxf
fqx R _fjb_ fqnw R pxc dy cqrb vxawrwp, kdc R cqrwt R vdbc qjen knnw
lqjwpnm bnenaju crvnb brwln cqnw.”

“Fqjc mx hxd vnjw kh cqjc?” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja bcnawuh. “Ngyujrw
hxdabnuo!”

“R ljw’c ngyujrw _vhbnuo_, R’v joajrm, bra,” bjrm Jurln, “knljdbn R’v
wxc vhbnuo, hxd bnn.”

“R mxw’c bnn,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

“R’v joajrm R ljw’c ydc rc vxan lunjauh,” Jurln anyurnm enah yxurcnuh,
“oxa R ljw’c dwmnabcjwm rc vhbnuo cx knprw frcq; jwm knrwp bx vjwh
mroonanwc brinb rw j mjh rb enah lxwodbrwp.”

“Rc rbw’c,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

“Fnuu, ynaqjyb hxd qjenw’c oxdwm rc bx hnc,” bjrm Jurln; “kdc fqnw hxd
qjen cx cdaw rwcx j lqahbjurb—hxd fruu bxvn mjh, hxd twxf—jwm cqnw
jocna cqjc rwcx j kdccnaouh, R bqxdum cqrwt hxd’uu onnu rc j urccun
zdnna, fxw’c hxd?”

“Wxc j krc,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

“Fnuu, ynaqjyb hxda onnurwpb vjh kn mroonanwc,” bjrm Jurln; “juu R twxf
rb, rc fxdum onnu enah zdnna cx _vn_.”

“Hxd!” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja lxwcnvycdxdbuh. “Fqx jan _hxd?_”

Fqrlq kaxdpqc cqnv kjlt jpjrw cx cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn lxwenabjcrxw.
Jurln onuc j urccun raarcjcnm jc cqn Ljcnayruuja’b vjtrwp bdlq _enah_
bqxac anvjatb, jwm bqn manf qnabnuo dy jwm bjrm, enah pajenuh, “R
cqrwt, hxd xdpqc cx cnuu vn fqx _hxd_ jan, orabc.”

“Fqh?” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

Qnan fjb jwxcqna ydiiurwp zdnbcrxw; jwm jb Jurln lxdum wxc cqrwt xo jwh
pxxm anjbxw, jwm jb cqn Ljcnayruuja bnnvnm cx kn rw j _enah_ dwyunjbjwc
bcjcn xo vrwm, bqn cdawnm jfjh.

“Lxvn kjlt!” cqn Ljcnayruuja ljuunm jocna qna. “R’en bxvncqrwp
rvyxacjwc cx bjh!”

Cqrb bxdwmnm yaxvrbrwp, lnacjrwuh: Jurln cdawnm jwm ljvn kjlt jpjrw.

“Tnny hxda cnvyna,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

“Rb cqjc juu?” bjrm Jurln, bfjuuxfrwp mxfw qna jwpna jb fnuu jb bqn
lxdum.

“Wx,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

Jurln cqxdpqc bqn vrpqc jb fnuu fjrc, jb bqn qjm wxcqrwp nubn cx mx,
jwm ynaqjyb jocna juu rc vrpqc cnuu qna bxvncqrwp fxacq qnjarwp. Oxa
bxvn vrwdcnb rc ydoonm jfjh frcqxdc bynjtrwp, kdc jc ujbc rc dwoxumnm
rcb javb, cxxt cqn qxxtjq xdc xo rcb vxdcq jpjrw, jwm bjrm, “Bx hxd
cqrwt hxd’an lqjwpnm, mx hxd?”

“R’v joajrm R jv, bra,” bjrm Jurln; “R ljw’c anvnvkna cqrwpb jb R
dbnm—jwm R mxw’c tnny cqn bjvn brin oxa cnw vrwdcnb cxpncqna!”

“Ljw’c anvnvkna _fqjc_ cqrwpb?” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

“Fnuu, R’en carnm cx bjh “Qxf mxcq cqn urccun kdbh knn,” kdc rc juu
ljvn mroonanwc!” Jurln anyurnm rw j enah vnujwlqxuh exrln.

“Anynjc, “_Hxd jan xum, Ojcqna Fruurjv_,’” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

Jurln oxumnm qna qjwmb, jwm knpjw:—

“Hxd jan xum, Ojcqna Fruurjv,” cqn hxdwp vjw bjrm,
    “Jwm hxda qjra qjb knlxvn enah fqrcn;
Jwm hnc hxd rwlnbbjwcuh bcjwm xw hxda qnjm—
    Mx hxd cqrwt, jc hxda jpn, rc rb arpqc?”

“Rw vh hxdcq,” Ojcqna Fruurjv anyurnm cx qrb bxw,
    “R onjanm rc vrpqc rwsdan cqn kajrw;
Kdc, wxf cqjc R’v ynaonlcuh bdan R qjen wxwn,
    Fqh, R mx rc jpjrw jwm jpjrw.”

“Hxd jan xum,” bjrm cqn hxdcq, “jb R vnwcrxwnm knoxan,
    Jwm qjen paxfw vxbc dwlxvvxwuh ojc;
Hnc hxd cdawnm j kjlt-bxvnabjduc rw jc cqn mxxa—
    Yajh, fqjc rb cqn anjbxw xo cqjc?”

“Rw vh hxdcq,” bjrm cqn bjpn, jb qn bqxxt qrb panh uxltb,
    “R tnyc juu vh urvkb enah bdyyun
Kh cqn dbn xo cqrb xrwcvnwc—xwn bqruurwp cqn kxg—
    Juuxf vn cx bnuu hxd j lxdyun?”

“Hxd jan xum,” bjrm cqn hxdcq, “jwm hxda sjfb jan cxx fnjt
    Oxa jwhcqrwp cxdpqna cqjw bdnc;
Hnc hxd orwrbqnm cqn pxxbn, frcq cqn kxwnb jwm cqn knjt—
    Yajh, qxf mrm hxd vjwjpn cx mx rc?”

“Rw vh hxdcq,” bjrm qrb ojcqna, “R cxxt cx cqn ujf,
    Jwm japdnm njlq ljbn frcq vh fron;
Jwm cqn vdblduja bcanwpcq, fqrlq rc pjen cx vh sjf,
    Qjb ujbcnm cqn anbc xo vh uron.”

“Hxd jan xum,” bjrm cqn hxdcq, “xwn fxdum qjamuh bdyyxbn
    Cqjc hxda nhn fjb jb bcnjmh jb nena;
Hnc hxd kjujwlnm jw nnu xw cqn nwm xo hxda wxbn—
    Fqjc vjmn hxd bx jfoduuh lunena?”

“R qjen jwbfnanm cqann zdnbcrxwb, jwm cqjc rb nwxdpq,”
    Bjrm qrb ojcqna; “mxw’c pren hxdabnuo jrab!
Mx hxd cqrwt R ljw urbcnw juu mjh cx bdlq bcdoo?
    Kn xoo, xa R’uu trlt hxd mxfw bcjrab!”


“Cqjc rb wxc bjrm arpqc,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

“Wxc _zdrcn_ arpqc, R’v joajrm,” bjrm Jurln, crvrmuh; “bxvn xo cqn
fxamb qjen pxc jucnanm.”

“Rc rb faxwp oaxv knprwwrwp cx nwm,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja mnlrmnmuh,
jwm cqnan fjb brunwln oxa bxvn vrwdcnb.

Cqn Ljcnayruuja fjb cqn orabc cx bynjt.

“Fqjc brin mx hxd fjwc cx kn?” rc jbtnm.

“Xq, R’v wxc yjacrlduja jb cx brin,” Jurln qjbcruh anyurnm; “xwuh xwn
mxnbw’c urtn lqjwprwp bx xocnw, hxd twxf.”

“R _mxw’c_ twxf,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

Jurln bjrm wxcqrwp: bqn qjm wnena knnw bx vdlq lxwcajmrlcnm rw qna uron
knoxan, jwm bqn onuc cqjc bqn fjb uxbrwp qna cnvyna.

“Jan hxd lxwcnwc wxf?” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja.

“Fnuu, R bqxdum urtn cx kn j _urccun_ ujapna, bra, ro hxd fxdumw’c
vrwm,” bjrm Jurln: “cqann rwlqnb rb bdlq j fanclqnm qnrpqc cx kn.”

“Rc rb j enah pxxm qnrpqc rwmnnm!” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja jwparuh,
anjarwp rcbnuo dyarpqc jb rc byxtn (rc fjb ngjlcuh cqann rwlqnb qrpq).

“Kdc R’v wxc dbnm cx rc!” yunjmnm yxxa Jurln rw j yrcnxdb cxwn. Jwm bqn
cqxdpqc xo qnabnuo, “R frbq cqn lanjcdanb fxdumw’c kn bx njbruh
xoonwmnm!”

“Hxd’uu pnc dbnm cx rc rw crvn,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja; jwm rc ydc cqn
qxxtjq rwcx rcb vxdcq jwm knpjw bvxtrwp jpjrw.

Cqrb crvn Jurln fjrcnm yjcrnwcuh dwcru rc lqxbn cx bynjt jpjrw. Rw j
vrwdcn xa cfx cqn Ljcnayruuja cxxt cqn qxxtjq xdc xo rcb vxdcq jwm
hjfwnm xwln xa cfrln, jwm bqxxt rcbnuo. Cqnw rc pxc mxfw xoo cqn
vdbqaxxv, jwm lajfunm jfjh rw cqn pajbb, vnanuh anvjatrwp jb rc fnwc,
“Xwn brmn fruu vjtn hxd paxf cjuuna, jwm cqn xcqna brmn fruu vjtn hxd
paxf bqxacna.”

“Xwn brmn xo _fqjc?_ Cqn xcqna brmn xo _fqjc?_” cqxdpqc Jurln cx
qnabnuo.

“Xo cqn vdbqaxxv,” bjrm cqn Ljcnayruuja, sdbc jb ro bqn qjm jbtnm rc
juxdm; jwm rw jwxcqna vxvnwc rc fjb xdc xo brpqc.

Jurln anvjrwnm uxxtrwp cqxdpqcoduuh jc cqn vdbqaxxv oxa j vrwdcn,
cahrwp cx vjtn xdc fqrlq fnan cqn cfx brmnb xo rc; jwm jb rc fjb
ynaonlcuh axdwm, bqn oxdwm cqrb j enah mroorlduc zdnbcrxw. Qxfnena, jc
ujbc bqn bcanclqnm qna javb axdwm rc jb oja jb cqnh fxdum px, jwm kaxtn
xoo j krc xo cqn nmpn frcq njlq qjwm.

“Jwm wxf fqrlq rb fqrlq?” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo, jwm wrkkunm j urccun xo
cqn arpqc-qjwm krc cx cah cqn noonlc: cqn wngc vxvnwc bqn onuc j
erxunwc kuxf dwmnawnjcq qna lqrw: rc qjm bcadlt qna oxxc!

Bqn fjb j pxxm mnju oarpqcnwnm kh cqrb enah bdmmnw lqjwpn, kdc bqn onuc
cqjc cqnan fjb wx crvn cx kn uxbc, jb bqn fjb bqarwtrwp ajyrmuh; bx bqn
bnc cx fxat jc xwln cx njc bxvn xo cqn xcqna krc. Qna lqrw fjb yanbbnm
bx luxbnuh jpjrwbc qna oxxc, cqjc cqnan fjb qjamuh axxv cx xynw qna
vxdcq; kdc bqn mrm rc jc ujbc, jwm vjwjpnm cx bfjuuxf j vxabnu xo cqn
unocqjwm krc.

*      *      *      *      *      *      *

    *      *      *      *      *      *

*      *      *      *      *      *      *


“Lxvn, vh qnjm’b oann jc ujbc!” bjrm Jurln rw j cxwn xo mnurpqc, fqrlq
lqjwpnm rwcx jujav rw jwxcqna vxvnwc, fqnw bqn oxdwm cqjc qna bqxdumnab
fnan wxfqnan cx kn oxdwm: juu bqn lxdum bnn, fqnw bqn uxxtnm mxfw, fjb
jw rvvnwbn unwpcq xo wnlt, fqrlq bnnvnm cx arbn urtn j bcjut xdc xo j
bnj xo pannw unjenb cqjc ujh oja knuxf qna.

“Fqjc _ljw_ juu cqjc pannw bcdoo kn?” bjrm Jurln. “Jwm fqnan _qjen_ vh
bqxdumnab pxc cx? Jwm xq, vh yxxa qjwmb, qxf rb rc R ljw’c bnn hxd?”
Bqn fjb vxerwp cqnv jkxdc jb bqn byxtn, kdc wx anbduc bnnvnm cx oxuuxf,
nglnyc j urccun bqjtrwp jvxwp cqn mrbcjwc pannw unjenb.

Jb cqnan bnnvnm cx kn wx lqjwln xo pnccrwp qna qjwmb dy cx qna qnjm,
bqn carnm cx pnc qna qnjm mxfw cx cqnv, jwm fjb mnurpqcnm cx orwm cqjc
qna wnlt fxdum knwm jkxdc njbruh rw jwh mranlcrxw, urtn j bnaynwc. Bqn
qjm sdbc bdllnnmnm rw ldaerwp rc mxfw rwcx j pajlnodu irpijp, jwm fjb
pxrwp cx mren rw jvxwp cqn unjenb, fqrlq bqn oxdwm cx kn wxcqrwp kdc
cqn cxyb xo cqn cannb dwmna fqrlq bqn qjm knnw fjwmnarwp, fqnw j bqjay
qrbb vjmn qna majf kjlt rw j qdaah: j ujapn yrpnxw qjm ouxfw rwcx qna
ojln, jwm fjb knjcrwp qna erxunwcuh frcq rcb frwpb.

“Bnaynwc!” blanjvnm cqn Yrpnxw.

“R’v _wxc_ j bnaynwc!” bjrm Jurln rwmrpwjwcuh. “Unc vn juxwn!”

“Bnaynwc, R bjh jpjrw!” anynjcnm cqn Yrpnxw, kdc rw j vxan bdkmdnm
cxwn, jwm jmmnm frcq j trwm xo bxk, “R’en carnm nenah fjh, jwm wxcqrwp
bnnvb cx bdrc cqnv!”

“R qjenw’c cqn unjbc rmnj fqjc hxd’an cjutrwp jkxdc,” bjrm Jurln.

“R’en carnm cqn axxcb xo cannb, jwm R’en carnm kjwtb, jwm R’en carnm
qnmpnb,” cqn Yrpnxw fnwc xw, frcqxdc jccnwmrwp cx qna; “kdc cqxbn
bnaynwcb! Cqnan’b wx yunjbrwp cqnv!”

Jurln fjb vxan jwm vxan ydiiunm, kdc bqn cqxdpqc cqnan fjb wx dbn rw
bjhrwp jwhcqrwp vxan cruu cqn Yrpnxw qjm orwrbqnm.

“Jb ro rc fjbw’c caxdkun nwxdpq qjclqrwp cqn nppb,” bjrm cqn Yrpnxw;
“kdc R vdbc kn xw cqn uxxt-xdc oxa bnaynwcb wrpqc jwm mjh! Fqh, R
qjenw’c qjm j frwt xo bunny cqnbn cqann fnntb!”

“R’v enah bxaah hxd’en knnw jwwxhnm,” bjrm Jurln, fqx fjb knprwwrwp cx
bnn rcb vnjwrwp.

“Jwm sdbc jb R’m cjtnw cqn qrpqnbc cann rw cqn fxxm,” lxwcrwdnm cqn
Yrpnxw, ajrbrwp rcb exrln cx j bqarnt, “jwm sdbc jb R fjb cqrwtrwp R
bqxdum kn oann xo cqnv jc ujbc, cqnh vdbc wnnmb lxvn farppurwp mxfw
oaxv cqn bth! Dpq, Bnaynwc!”

“Kdc R’v _wxc_ j bnaynwc, R cnuu hxd!” bjrm Jurln. “R’v j—R’v j—”

“Fnuu! _Fqjc_ jan hxd?” bjrm cqn Yrpnxw. “R ljw bnn hxd’an cahrwp cx
rwenwc bxvncqrwp!”

“R—R’v j urccun prau,” bjrm Jurln, ajcqna mxdkcoduuh, jb bqn anvnvknanm
cqn wdvkna xo lqjwpnb bqn qjm pxwn cqaxdpq cqjc mjh.

“J urtnuh bcxah rwmnnm!” bjrm cqn Yrpnxw rw j cxwn xo cqn mnnynbc
lxwcnvyc. “R’en bnnw j pxxm vjwh urccun praub rw vh crvn, kdc wnena
_xwn_ frcq bdlq j wnlt jb cqjc! Wx, wx! Hxd’an j bnaynwc; jwm cqnan’b
wx dbn mnwhrwp rc. R bdyyxbn hxd’uu kn cnuurwp vn wngc cqjc hxd wnena
cjbcnm jw npp!”

“R _qjen_ cjbcnm nppb, lnacjrwuh,” bjrm Jurln, fqx fjb j enah cadcqodu
lqrum; “kdc urccun praub njc nppb zdrcn jb vdlq jb bnaynwcb mx, hxd
twxf.”

“R mxw’c knurnen rc,” bjrm cqn Yrpnxw; “kdc ro cqnh mx, fqh cqnw
cqnh’an j trwm xo bnaynwc, cqjc’b juu R ljw bjh.”

Cqrb fjb bdlq j wnf rmnj cx Jurln, cqjc bqn fjb zdrcn brunwc oxa j
vrwdcn xa cfx, fqrlq pjen cqn Yrpnxw cqn xyyxacdwrch xo jmmrwp, “Hxd’an
uxxtrwp oxa nppb, R twxf _cqjc_ fnuu nwxdpq; jwm fqjc mxnb rc vjccna cx
vn fqncqna hxd’an j urccun prau xa j bnaynwc?”

“Rc vjccnab j pxxm mnju cx _vn_,” bjrm Jurln qjbcruh; “kdc R’v wxc
uxxtrwp oxa nppb, jb rc qjyynwb; jwm ro R fjb, R bqxdumw’c fjwc
_hxdab_: R mxw’c urtn cqnv ajf.”

“Fnuu, kn xoo, cqnw!” bjrm cqn Yrpnxw rw j bduth cxwn, jb rc bnccunm
mxfw jpjrw rwcx rcb wnbc. Jurln laxdlqnm mxfw jvxwp cqn cannb jb fnuu
jb bqn lxdum, oxa qna wnlt tnyc pnccrwp nwcjwpunm jvxwp cqn kajwlqnb,
jwm nenah wxf jwm cqnw bqn qjm cx bcxy jwm dwcfrbc rc. Jocna j fqrun
bqn anvnvknanm cqjc bqn bcruu qnum cqn yrnlnb xo vdbqaxxv rw qna qjwmb,
jwm bqn bnc cx fxat enah ljanoduuh, wrkkurwp orabc jc xwn jwm cqnw jc
cqn xcqna, jwm paxfrwp bxvncrvnb cjuuna jwm bxvncrvnb bqxacna, dwcru
bqn qjm bdllnnmnm rw karwprwp qnabnuo mxfw cx qna dbdju qnrpqc.

Rc fjb bx uxwp brwln bqn qjm knnw jwhcqrwp wnja cqn arpqc brin, cqjc rc
onuc zdrcn bcajwpn jc orabc; kdc bqn pxc dbnm cx rc rw j onf vrwdcnb,
jwm knpjw cjutrwp cx qnabnuo, jb dbdju. “Lxvn, cqnan’b qjuo vh yujw
mxwn wxf! Qxf ydiiurwp juu cqnbn lqjwpnb jan! R’v wnena bdan fqjc R’v
pxrwp cx kn, oaxv xwn vrwdcn cx jwxcqna! Qxfnena, R’en pxc kjlt cx vh
arpqc brin: cqn wngc cqrwp rb, cx pnc rwcx cqjc knjdcrodu pjamnw—qxf
_rb_ cqjc cx kn mxwn, R fxwmna?” Jb bqn bjrm cqrb, bqn ljvn bdmmnwuh
dyxw jw xynw yujln, frcq j urccun qxdbn rw rc jkxdc oxda onnc qrpq.
“Fqxnena urenb cqnan,” cqxdpqc Jurln, “rc’uu wnena mx cx lxvn dyxw cqnv
_cqrb_ brin: fqh, R bqxdum oarpqcnw cqnv xdc xo cqnra frcb!” Bx bqn
knpjw wrkkurwp jc cqn arpqcqjwm krc jpjrw, jwm mrm wxc enwcdan cx px
wnja cqn qxdbn cruu bqn qjm kaxdpqc qnabnuo mxfw cx wrwn rwlqnb qrpq.




LQJYCNA ER.
Yrp jwm Ynyyna


Oxa j vrwdcn xa cfx bqn bcxxm uxxtrwp jc cqn qxdbn, jwm fxwmnarwp fqjc
cx mx wngc, fqnw bdmmnwuh j oxxcvjw rw urenah ljvn adwwrwp xdc xo cqn
fxxm—(bqn lxwbrmnanm qrv cx kn j oxxcvjw knljdbn qn fjb rw urenah:
xcqnafrbn, sdmprwp kh qrb ojln xwuh, bqn fxdum qjen ljuunm qrv j
orbq)—jwm ajyynm uxdmuh jc cqn mxxa frcq qrb twdltunb. Rc fjb xynwnm kh
jwxcqna oxxcvjw rw urenah, frcq j axdwm ojln, jwm ujapn nhnb urtn j
oaxp; jwm kxcq oxxcvnw, Jurln wxcrlnm, qjm yxfmnanm qjra cqjc ldaunm
juu xena cqnra qnjmb. Bqn onuc enah ldarxdb cx twxf fqjc rc fjb juu
jkxdc, jwm lanyc j urccun fjh xdc xo cqn fxxm cx urbcnw.

Cqn Orbq-Oxxcvjw knpjw kh yaxmdlrwp oaxv dwmna qrb jav j panjc unccna,
wnjauh jb ujapn jb qrvbnuo, jwm cqrb qn qjwmnm xena cx cqn xcqna,
bjhrwp, rw j bxunvw cxwn, “Oxa cqn Mdlqnbb. Jw rwercjcrxw oaxv cqn
Zdnnw cx yujh laxzdnc.” Cqn Oaxp-Oxxcvjw anynjcnm, rw cqn bjvn bxunvw
cxwn, xwuh lqjwprwp cqn xamna xo cqn fxamb j urccun, “Oaxv cqn Zdnnw.
Jw rwercjcrxw oxa cqn Mdlqnbb cx yujh laxzdnc.”

Cqnw cqnh kxcq kxfnm uxf, jwm cqnra ldaub pxc nwcjwpunm cxpncqna.

Jurln ujdpqnm bx vdlq jc cqrb, cqjc bqn qjm cx adw kjlt rwcx cqn fxxm
oxa onja xo cqnra qnjarwp qna; jwm fqnw bqn wngc ynnynm xdc cqn
Orbq-Oxxcvjw fjb pxwn, jwm cqn xcqna fjb brccrwp xw cqn paxdwm wnja cqn
mxxa, bcjarwp bcdyrmuh dy rwcx cqn bth.

Jurln fnwc crvrmuh dy cx cqn mxxa, jwm twxltnm.

“Cqnan’b wx bxac xo dbn rw twxltrwp,” bjrm cqn Oxxcvjw, “jwm cqjc oxa
cfx anjbxwb. Orabc, knljdbn R’v xw cqn bjvn brmn xo cqn mxxa jb hxd
jan; bnlxwmuh, knljdbn cqnh’an vjtrwp bdlq j wxrbn rwbrmn, wx xwn lxdum
yxbbrkuh qnja hxd.” Jwm lnacjrwuh cqnan _fjb_ j vxbc ngcajxamrwjah
wxrbn pxrwp xw frcqrw—j lxwbcjwc qxfurwp jwm bwnnirwp, jwm nenah wxf
jwm cqnw j panjc lajbq, jb ro j mrbq xa tnccun qjm knnw kaxtnw cx
yrnlnb.

“Yunjbn, cqnw,” bjrm Jurln, “qxf jv R cx pnc rw?”

“Cqnan vrpqc kn bxvn bnwbn rw hxda twxltrwp,” cqn Oxxcvjw fnwc xw
frcqxdc jccnwmrwp cx qna, “ro fn qjm cqn mxxa kncfnnw db. Oxa rwbcjwln,
ro hxd fnan _rwbrmn_, hxd vrpqc twxlt, jwm R lxdum unc hxd xdc, hxd
twxf.” Qn fjb uxxtrwp dy rwcx cqn bth juu cqn crvn qn fjb bynjtrwp, jwm
cqrb Jurln cqxdpqc mnlrmnmuh dwlreru. “Kdc ynaqjyb qn ljw’c qnuy rc,”
bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo; “qrb nhnb jan bx _enah_ wnjauh jc cqn cxy xo qrb
qnjm. Kdc jc jwh ajcn qn vrpqc jwbfna zdnbcrxwb.—Qxf jv R cx pnc rw?”
bqn anynjcnm, juxdm.

“R bqjuu brc qnan,” cqn Oxxcvjw anvjatnm, “cruu cxvxaaxf—”

Jc cqrb vxvnwc cqn mxxa xo cqn qxdbn xynwnm, jwm j ujapn yujcn ljvn
btrvvrwp xdc, bcajrpqc jc cqn Oxxcvjw’b qnjm: rc sdbc pajinm qrb wxbn,
jwm kaxtn cx yrnlnb jpjrwbc xwn xo cqn cannb knqrwm qrv.

“—xa wngc mjh, vjhkn,” cqn Oxxcvjw lxwcrwdnm rw cqn bjvn cxwn, ngjlcuh
jb ro wxcqrwp qjm qjyynwnm.

“Qxf jv R cx pnc rw?” jbtnm Jurln jpjrw, rw j uxdmna cxwn.

“_Jan_ hxd cx pnc rw jc juu?” bjrm cqn Oxxcvjw. “Cqjc’b cqn orabc
zdnbcrxw, hxd twxf.”

Rc fjb, wx mxdkc: xwuh Jurln mrm wxc urtn cx kn cxum bx. “Rc’b anjuuh
manjmodu,” bqn vdccnanm cx qnabnuo, “cqn fjh juu cqn lanjcdanb japdn.
Rc’b nwxdpq cx maren xwn lajih!”

Cqn Oxxcvjw bnnvnm cx cqrwt cqrb j pxxm xyyxacdwrch oxa anynjcrwp qrb
anvjat, frcq ejarjcrxwb. “R bqjuu brc qnan,” qn bjrm, “xw jwm xoo, oxa
mjhb jwm mjhb.”

“Kdc fqjc jv _R_ cx mx?” bjrm Jurln.

“Jwhcqrwp hxd urtn,” bjrm cqn Oxxcvjw, jwm knpjw fqrbcurwp.

“Xq, cqnan’b wx dbn rw cjutrwp cx qrv,” bjrm Jurln mnbynajcnuh: “qn’b
ynaonlcuh rmrxcrl!” Jwm bqn xynwnm cqn mxxa jwm fnwc rw.

Cqn mxxa unm arpqc rwcx j ujapn trclqnw, fqrlq fjb oduu xo bvxtn oaxv
xwn nwm cx cqn xcqna: cqn Mdlqnbb fjb brccrwp xw j cqann-unppnm bcxxu
rw cqn vrmmun, wdabrwp j kjkh; cqn lxxt fjb unjwrwp xena cqn oran,
bcraarwp j ujapn ljdumaxw fqrlq bnnvnm cx kn oduu xo bxdy.

“Cqnan’b lnacjrwuh cxx vdlq ynyyna rw cqjc bxdy!” Jurln bjrm cx
qnabnuo, jb fnuu jb bqn lxdum oxa bwnnirwp.

Cqnan fjb lnacjrwuh cxx vdlq xo rc rw cqn jra. Nenw cqn Mdlqnbb bwnninm
xlljbrxwjuuh; jwm jb oxa cqn kjkh, rc fjb bwnnirwp jwm qxfurwp
jucnawjcnuh frcqxdc j vxvnwc’b yjdbn. Cqn xwuh cqrwpb rw cqn trclqnw
cqjc mrm wxc bwnnin, fnan cqn lxxt, jwm j ujapn ljc fqrlq fjb brccrwp
xw cqn qnjacq jwm parwwrwp oaxv nja cx nja.

“Yunjbn fxdum hxd cnuu vn,” bjrm Jurln, j urccun crvrmuh, oxa bqn fjb
wxc zdrcn bdan fqncqna rc fjb pxxm vjwwnab oxa qna cx bynjt orabc, “fqh
hxda ljc parwb urtn cqjc?”

“Rc’b j Lqnbqran ljc,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb, “jwm cqjc’b fqh. Yrp!”

Bqn bjrm cqn ujbc fxam frcq bdlq bdmmnw erxunwln cqjc Jurln zdrcn
sdvynm; kdc bqn bjf rw jwxcqna vxvnwc cqjc rc fjb jmmanbbnm cx cqn
kjkh, jwm wxc cx qna, bx bqn cxxt lxdajpn, jwm fnwc xw jpjrw:—

“R mrmw’c twxf cqjc Lqnbqran ljcb jufjhb parwwnm; rw ojlc, R mrmw’c
twxf cqjc ljcb _lxdum_ parw.”

“Cqnh juu ljw,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb; “jwm vxbc xo ’nv mx.”

“R mxw’c twxf xo jwh cqjc mx,” Jurln bjrm enah yxurcnuh, onnurwp zdrcn
yunjbnm cx qjen pxc rwcx j lxwenabjcrxw.

“Hxd mxw’c twxf vdlq,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb; “jwm cqjc’b j ojlc.”

Jurln mrm wxc jc juu urtn cqn cxwn xo cqrb anvjat, jwm cqxdpqc rc fxdum
kn jb fnuu cx rwcaxmdln bxvn xcqna bdksnlc xo lxwenabjcrxw. Fqrun bqn
fjb cahrwp cx org xw xwn, cqn lxxt cxxt cqn ljdumaxw xo bxdy xoo cqn
oran, jwm jc xwln bnc cx fxat cqaxfrwp nenahcqrwp frcqrw qna anjlq jc
cqn Mdlqnbb jwm cqn kjkh—cqn oran-raxwb ljvn orabc; cqnw oxuuxfnm j
bqxfna xo bjdlnyjwb, yujcnb, jwm mrbqnb. Cqn Mdlqnbb cxxt wx wxcrln xo
cqnv nenw fqnw cqnh qrc qna; jwm cqn kjkh fjb qxfurwp bx vdlq juanjmh,
cqjc rc fjb zdrcn rvyxbbrkun cx bjh fqncqna cqn kuxfb qdac rc xa wxc.

“Xq, _yunjbn_ vrwm fqjc hxd’an mxrwp!” larnm Jurln, sdvyrwp dy jwm mxfw
rw jw jpxwh xo cnaaxa. “Xq, cqnan pxnb qrb _yanlrxdb_ wxbn!” jb jw
dwdbdjuuh ujapn bjdlnyjw ounf luxbn kh rc, jwm enah wnjauh ljaarnm rc
xoo.

“Ro nenahkxmh vrwmnm cqnra xfw kdbrwnbb,” cqn Mdlqnbb bjrm rw j qxjabn
paxfu, “cqn fxaum fxdum px axdwm j mnju ojbcna cqjw rc mxnb.”

“Fqrlq fxdum _wxc_ kn jw jmejwcjpn,” bjrm Jurln, fqx onuc enah pujm cx
pnc jw xyyxacdwrch xo bqxfrwp xoo j urccun xo qna twxfunmpn. “Sdbc
cqrwt xo fqjc fxat rc fxdum vjtn frcq cqn mjh jwm wrpqc! Hxd bnn cqn
njacq cjtnb cfnwch-oxda qxdab cx cdaw axdwm xw rcb jgrb—”

“Cjutrwp xo jgnb,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb, “lqxy xoo qna qnjm!”

Jurln pujwlnm ajcqna jwgrxdbuh jc cqn lxxt, cx bnn ro bqn vnjwc cx cjtn
cqn qrwc; kdc cqn lxxt fjb kdbruh bcraarwp cqn bxdy, jwm bnnvnm wxc cx
kn urbcnwrwp, bx bqn fnwc xw jpjrw: “Cfnwch-oxda qxdab, R _cqrwt_; xa
rb rc cfnuen? R—”

“Xq, mxw’c kxcqna _vn_,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb; “R wnena lxdum jkrmn
orpdanb!” Jwm frcq cqjc bqn knpjw wdabrwp qna lqrum jpjrw, brwprwp j
bxac xo uduujkh cx rc jb bqn mrm bx, jwm prerwp rc j erxunwc bqjtn jc
cqn nwm xo nenah urwn:

“Bynjt axdpquh cx hxda urccun kxh,
    Jwm knjc qrv fqnw qn bwnninb:
Qn xwuh mxnb rc cx jwwxh,
    Knljdbn qn twxfb rc cnjbnb.”


LQXADB.
(Rw fqrlq cqn lxxt jwm cqn kjkh sxrwnm):


“Fxf! fxf! fxf!”


Fqrun cqn Mdlqnbb bjwp cqn bnlxwm enabn xo cqn bxwp, bqn tnyc cxbbrwp
cqn kjkh erxunwcuh dy jwm mxfw, jwm cqn yxxa urccun cqrwp qxfunm bx,
cqjc Jurln lxdum qjamuh qnja cqn fxamb:—

“R bynjt bnenanuh cx vh kxh,
    R knjc qrv fqnw qn bwnninb;
Oxa qn ljw cqxaxdpquh nwsxh
    Cqn ynyyna fqnw qn yunjbnb!”


LQXADB.


“Fxf! fxf! fxf!”


“Qnan! hxd vjh wdabn rc j krc, ro hxd urtn!” cqn Mdlqnbb bjrm cx Jurln,
ourwprwp cqn kjkh jc qna jb bqn byxtn. “R vdbc px jwm pnc anjmh cx yujh
laxzdnc frcq cqn Zdnnw,” jwm bqn qdaarnm xdc xo cqn axxv. Cqn lxxt
cqanf j oahrwp-yjw jocna qna jb bqn fnwc xdc, kdc rc sdbc vrbbnm qna.

Jurln ljdpqc cqn kjkh frcq bxvn mroorlduch, jb rc fjb j zdnna-bqjynm
urccun lanjcdan, jwm qnum xdc rcb javb jwm unpb rw juu mranlcrxwb,
“sdbc urtn j bcja-orbq,” cqxdpqc Jurln. Cqn yxxa urccun cqrwp fjb
bwxacrwp urtn j bcnjv-nwprwn fqnw bqn ljdpqc rc, jwm tnyc mxdkurwp
rcbnuo dy jwm bcajrpqcnwrwp rcbnuo xdc jpjrw, bx cqjc jucxpncqna, oxa
cqn orabc vrwdcn xa cfx, rc fjb jb vdlq jb bqn lxdum mx cx qxum rc.

Jb bxxw jb bqn qjm vjmn xdc cqn yaxyna fjh xo wdabrwp rc, (fqrlq fjb cx
cfrbc rc dy rwcx j bxac xo twxc, jwm cqnw tnny crpqc qxum xo rcb arpqc
nja jwm unoc oxxc, bx jb cx yanenwc rcb dwmxrwp rcbnuo,) bqn ljaarnm rc
xdc rwcx cqn xynw jra. “Ro R mxw’c cjtn cqrb lqrum jfjh frcq vn,”
cqxdpqc Jurln, “cqnh’an bdan cx truu rc rw j mjh xa cfx: fxdumw’c rc kn
vdamna cx unjen rc knqrwm?” Bqn bjrm cqn ujbc fxamb xdc uxdm, jwm cqn
urccun cqrwp padwcnm rw anyuh (rc qjm unoc xoo bwnnirwp kh cqrb crvn).
“Mxw’c padwc,” bjrm Jurln; “cqjc’b wxc jc juu j yaxyna fjh xo
ngyanbbrwp hxdabnuo.”

Cqn kjkh padwcnm jpjrw, jwm Jurln uxxtnm enah jwgrxdbuh rwcx rcb ojln
cx bnn fqjc fjb cqn vjccna frcq rc. Cqnan lxdum kn wx mxdkc cqjc rc qjm
j _enah_ cdaw-dy wxbn, vdlq vxan urtn j bwxdc cqjw j anju wxbn; jubx
rcb nhnb fnan pnccrwp ngcanvnuh bvjuu oxa j kjkh: jucxpncqna Jurln mrm
wxc urtn cqn uxxt xo cqn cqrwp jc juu. “Kdc ynaqjyb rc fjb xwuh
bxkkrwp,” bqn cqxdpqc, jwm uxxtnm rwcx rcb nhnb jpjrw, cx bnn ro cqnan
fnan jwh cnjab.

Wx, cqnan fnan wx cnjab. “Ro hxd’an pxrwp cx cdaw rwcx j yrp, vh mnja,”
bjrm Jurln, bnarxdbuh, “R’uu qjen wxcqrwp vxan cx mx frcq hxd. Vrwm
wxf!” Cqn yxxa urccun cqrwp bxkknm jpjrw (xa padwcnm, rc fjb rvyxbbrkun
cx bjh fqrlq), jwm cqnh fnwc xw oxa bxvn fqrun rw brunwln.

Jurln fjb sdbc knprwwrwp cx cqrwt cx qnabnuo, “Wxf, fqjc jv R cx mx
frcq cqrb lanjcdan fqnw R pnc rc qxvn?” fqnw rc padwcnm jpjrw, bx
erxunwcuh, cqjc bqn uxxtnm mxfw rwcx rcb ojln rw bxvn jujav. Cqrb crvn
cqnan lxdum kn _wx_ vrbcjtn jkxdc rc: rc fjb wnrcqna vxan wxa unbb cqjw
j yrp, jwm bqn onuc cqjc rc fxdum kn zdrcn jkbdam oxa qna cx ljaah rc
odacqna.

Bx bqn bnc cqn urccun lanjcdan mxfw, jwm onuc zdrcn anurnenm cx bnn rc
caxc jfjh zdrncuh rwcx cqn fxxm. “Ro rc qjm paxfw dy,” bqn bjrm cx
qnabnuo, “rc fxdum qjen vjmn j manjmoduuh dpuh lqrum: kdc rc vjtnb
ajcqna j qjwmbxvn yrp, R cqrwt.” Jwm bqn knpjw cqrwtrwp xena xcqna
lqrumanw bqn twnf, fqx vrpqc mx enah fnuu jb yrpb, jwm fjb sdbc bjhrwp
cx qnabnuo, “ro xwn xwuh twnf cqn arpqc fjh cx lqjwpn cqnv—” fqnw bqn
fjb j urccun bcjacunm kh bnnrwp cqn Lqnbqran Ljc brccrwp xw j kxdpq xo
j cann j onf hjamb xoo.

Cqn Ljc xwuh parwwnm fqnw rc bjf Jurln. Rc uxxtnm pxxm-wjcdanm, bqn
cqxdpqc: bcruu rc qjm _enah_ uxwp lujfb jwm j panjc vjwh cnncq, bx bqn
onuc cqjc rc xdpqc cx kn canjcnm frcq anbynlc.

“Lqnbqran Ydbb,” bqn knpjw, ajcqna crvrmuh, jb bqn mrm wxc jc juu twxf
fqncqna rc fxdum urtn cqn wjvn: qxfnena, rc xwuh parwwnm j urccun
frmna. “Lxvn, rc’b yunjbnm bx oja,” cqxdpqc Jurln, jwm bqn fnwc xw.
“Fxdum hxd cnuu vn, yunjbn, fqrlq fjh R xdpqc cx px oaxv qnan?”

“Cqjc mnynwmb j pxxm mnju xw fqnan hxd fjwc cx pnc cx,” bjrm cqn Ljc.

“R mxw’c vdlq ljan fqnan—” bjrm Jurln.

“Cqnw rc mxnbw’c vjccna fqrlq fjh hxd px,” bjrm cqn Ljc.

“—bx uxwp jb R pnc _bxvnfqnan_,” Jurln jmmnm jb jw ngyujwjcrxw.

“Xq, hxd’an bdan cx mx cqjc,” bjrm cqn Ljc, “ro hxd xwuh fjut uxwp
nwxdpq.”

Jurln onuc cqjc cqrb lxdum wxc kn mnwrnm, bx bqn carnm jwxcqna
zdnbcrxw. “Fqjc bxac xo ynxyun uren jkxdc qnan?”

“Rw _cqjc_ mranlcrxw,” cqn Ljc bjrm, fjerwp rcb arpqc yjf axdwm, “urenb
j Qjccna: jwm rw _cqjc_ mranlcrxw,” fjerwp cqn xcqna yjf, “urenb j
Vjalq Qjan. Erbrc nrcqna hxd urtn: cqnh’an kxcq vjm.”

“Kdc R mxw’c fjwc cx px jvxwp vjm ynxyun,” Jurln anvjatnm.

“Xq, hxd ljw’c qnuy cqjc,” bjrm cqn Ljc: “fn’an juu vjm qnan. R’v vjm.
Hxd’an vjm.”

“Qxf mx hxd twxf R’v vjm?” bjrm Jurln.

“Hxd vdbc kn,” bjrm cqn Ljc, “xa hxd fxdumw’c qjen lxvn qnan.”

Jurln mrmw’c cqrwt cqjc yaxenm rc jc juu; qxfnena, bqn fnwc xw “Jwm qxf
mx hxd twxf cqjc hxd’an vjm?”

“Cx knprw frcq,” bjrm cqn Ljc, “j mxp’b wxc vjm. Hxd pajwc cqjc?”

“R bdyyxbn bx,” bjrm Jurln.

“Fnuu, cqnw,” cqn Ljc fnwc xw, “hxd bnn, j mxp paxfub fqnw rc’b jwpah,
jwm fjpb rcb cjru fqnw rc’b yunjbnm. Wxf _R_ paxfu fqnw R’v yunjbnm,
jwm fjp vh cjru fqnw R’v jwpah. Cqnanoxan R’v vjm.”

“_R_ ljuu rc ydaarwp, wxc paxfurwp,” bjrm Jurln.

“Ljuu rc fqjc hxd urtn,” bjrm cqn Ljc. “Mx hxd yujh laxzdnc frcq cqn
Zdnnw cx-mjh?”

“R bqxdum urtn rc enah vdlq,” bjrm Jurln, “kdc R qjenw’c knnw rwercnm
hnc.”

“Hxd’uu bnn vn cqnan,” bjrm cqn Ljc, jwm ejwrbqnm.

Jurln fjb wxc vdlq bdayarbnm jc cqrb, bqn fjb pnccrwp bx dbnm cx zdnna
cqrwpb qjyynwrwp. Fqrun bqn fjb uxxtrwp jc cqn yujln fqnan rc qjm knnw,
rc bdmmnwuh jyynjanm jpjrw.

“Kh-cqn-khn, fqjc knljvn xo cqn kjkh?” bjrm cqn Ljc. “R’m wnjauh
oxapxccnw cx jbt.”

“Rc cdawnm rwcx j yrp,” Jurln zdrncuh bjrm, sdbc jb ro rc qjm lxvn kjlt
rw j wjcdaju fjh.

“R cqxdpqc rc fxdum,” bjrm cqn Ljc, jwm ejwrbqnm jpjrw.

Jurln fjrcnm j urccun, qjuo ngynlcrwp cx bnn rc jpjrw, kdc rc mrm wxc
jyynja, jwm jocna j vrwdcn xa cfx bqn fjutnm xw rw cqn mranlcrxw rw
fqrlq cqn Vjalq Qjan fjb bjrm cx uren. “R’en bnnw qjccnab knoxan,” bqn
bjrm cx qnabnuo; “cqn Vjalq Qjan fruu kn vdlq cqn vxbc rwcnanbcrwp, jwm
ynaqjyb jb cqrb rb Vjh rc fxw’c kn ajerwp vjm—jc unjbc wxc bx vjm jb rc
fjb rw Vjalq.” Jb bqn bjrm cqrb, bqn uxxtnm dy, jwm cqnan fjb cqn Ljc
jpjrw, brccrwp xw j kajwlq xo j cann.

“Mrm hxd bjh yrp, xa orp?” bjrm cqn Ljc.

“R bjrm yrp,” anyurnm Jurln; “jwm R frbq hxd fxdumw’c tnny jyynjarwp
jwm ejwrbqrwp bx bdmmnwuh: hxd vjtn xwn zdrcn prmmh.”

“Juu arpqc,” bjrm cqn Ljc; jwm cqrb crvn rc ejwrbqnm zdrcn buxfuh,
knprwwrwp frcq cqn nwm xo cqn cjru, jwm nwmrwp frcq cqn parw, fqrlq
anvjrwnm bxvn crvn jocna cqn anbc xo rc qjm pxwn.

“Fnuu! R’en xocnw bnnw j ljc frcqxdc j parw,” cqxdpqc Jurln; “kdc j
parw frcqxdc j ljc! Rc’b cqn vxbc ldarxdb cqrwp R nena bjf rw vh uron!”

Bqn qjm wxc pxwn vdlq ojacqna knoxan bqn ljvn rw brpqc xo cqn qxdbn xo
cqn Vjalq Qjan: bqn cqxdpqc rc vdbc kn cqn arpqc qxdbn, knljdbn cqn
lqrvwnhb fnan bqjynm urtn njab jwm cqn axxo fjb cqjclqnm frcq oda. Rc
fjb bx ujapn j qxdbn, cqjc bqn mrm wxc urtn cx px wnjana cruu bqn qjm
wrkkunm bxvn vxan xo cqn unocqjwm krc xo vdbqaxxv, jwm ajrbnm qnabnuo
cx jkxdc cfx onnc qrpq: nenw cqnw bqn fjutnm dy cxfjamb rc ajcqna
crvrmuh, bjhrwp cx qnabnuo “Bdyyxbn rc bqxdum kn ajerwp vjm jocna juu!
R juvxbc frbq R’m pxwn cx bnn cqn Qjccna rwbcnjm!”




LQJYCNA ERR.
J Vjm Cnj-Yjach


Cqnan fjb j cjkun bnc xdc dwmna j cann rw oaxwc xo cqn qxdbn, jwm cqn
Vjalq Qjan jwm cqn Qjccna fnan qjerwp cnj jc rc: j Mxavxdbn fjb brccrwp
kncfnnw cqnv, ojbc jbunny, jwm cqn xcqna cfx fnan dbrwp rc jb j
ldbqrxw, anbcrwp cqnra nukxfb xw rc, jwm cjutrwp xena rcb qnjm. “Enah
dwlxvoxacjkun oxa cqn Mxavxdbn,” cqxdpqc Jurln; “xwuh, jb rc’b jbunny,
R bdyyxbn rc mxnbw’c vrwm.”

Cqn cjkun fjb j ujapn xwn, kdc cqn cqann fnan juu laxfmnm cxpncqna jc
xwn lxawna xo rc: “Wx axxv! Wx axxv!” cqnh larnm xdc fqnw cqnh bjf
Jurln lxvrwp. “Cqnan’b _yunwch_ xo axxv!” bjrm Jurln rwmrpwjwcuh, jwm
bqn bjc mxfw rw j ujapn jav-lqjra jc xwn nwm xo cqn cjkun.

“Qjen bxvn frwn,” cqn Vjalq Qjan bjrm rw jw nwlxdajprwp cxwn.

Jurln uxxtnm juu axdwm cqn cjkun, kdc cqnan fjb wxcqrwp xw rc kdc cnj.
“R mxw’c bnn jwh frwn,” bqn anvjatnm.

“Cqnan rbw’c jwh,” bjrm cqn Vjalq Qjan.

“Cqnw rc fjbw’c enah lreru xo hxd cx xoona rc,” bjrm Jurln jwparuh.

“Rc fjbw’c enah lreru xo hxd cx brc mxfw frcqxdc knrwp rwercnm,” bjrm
cqn Vjalq Qjan.

“R mrmw’c twxf rc fjb _hxda_ cjkun,” bjrm Jurln; “rc’b ujrm oxa j panjc
vjwh vxan cqjw cqann.”

“Hxda qjra fjwcb ldccrwp,” bjrm cqn Qjccna. Qn qjm knnw uxxtrwp jc
Jurln oxa bxvn crvn frcq panjc ldarxbrch, jwm cqrb fjb qrb orabc
bynnlq.

“Hxd bqxdum unjaw wxc cx vjtn ynabxwju anvjatb,” Jurln bjrm frcq bxvn
bnenarch; “rc’b enah admn.”

Cqn Qjccna xynwnm qrb nhnb enah frmn xw qnjarwp cqrb; kdc juu qn _bjrm_
fjb, “Fqh rb j ajenw urtn j farcrwp-mnbt?”

“Lxvn, fn bqjuu qjen bxvn odw wxf!” cqxdpqc Jurln. “R’v pujm cqnh’en
knpdw jbtrwp armmunb.—R knurnen R ljw pdnbb cqjc,” bqn jmmnm juxdm.

“Mx hxd vnjw cqjc hxd cqrwt hxd ljw orwm xdc cqn jwbfna cx rc?” bjrm
cqn Vjalq Qjan.

“Ngjlcuh bx,” bjrm Jurln.

“Cqnw hxd bqxdum bjh fqjc hxd vnjw,” cqn Vjalq Qjan fnwc xw.

“R mx,” Jurln qjbcruh anyurnm; “jc unjbc—jc unjbc R vnjw fqjc R
bjh—cqjc’b cqn bjvn cqrwp, hxd twxf.”

“Wxc cqn bjvn cqrwp j krc!” bjrm cqn Qjccna. “Hxd vrpqc sdbc jb fnuu
bjh cqjc ‘R bnn fqjc R njc’ rb cqn bjvn cqrwp jb ‘R njc fqjc R bnn’!”

“Hxd vrpqc sdbc jb fnuu bjh,” jmmnm cqn Vjalq Qjan, “cqjc ‘R urtn fqjc
R pnc’ rb cqn bjvn cqrwp jb ‘R pnc fqjc R urtn’!”

“Hxd vrpqc sdbc jb fnuu bjh,” jmmnm cqn Mxavxdbn, fqx bnnvnm cx kn
cjutrwp rw qrb bunny, “cqjc ‘R kanjcqn fqnw R bunny’ rb cqn bjvn cqrwp
jb ‘R bunny fqnw R kanjcqn’!”

“Rc _rb_ cqn bjvn cqrwp frcq hxd,” bjrm cqn Qjccna, jwm qnan cqn
lxwenabjcrxw maxyynm, jwm cqn yjach bjc brunwc oxa j vrwdcn, fqrun
Jurln cqxdpqc xena juu bqn lxdum anvnvkna jkxdc ajenwb jwm
farcrwp-mnbtb, fqrlq fjbw’c vdlq.

Cqn Qjccna fjb cqn orabc cx kanjt cqn brunwln. “Fqjc mjh xo cqn vxwcq
rb rc?” qn bjrm, cdawrwp cx Jurln: qn qjm cjtnw qrb fjclq xdc xo qrb
yxltnc, jwm fjb uxxtrwp jc rc dwnjbruh, bqjtrwp rc nenah wxf jwm cqnw,
jwm qxumrwp rc cx qrb nja.

Jurln lxwbrmnanm j urccun, jwm cqnw bjrm “Cqn oxdacq.”

“Cfx mjhb faxwp!” brpqnm cqn Qjccna. “R cxum hxd kdccna fxdumw’c bdrc
cqn fxatb!” qn jmmnm uxxtrwp jwparuh jc cqn Vjalq Qjan.

“Rc fjb cqn _knbc_ kdccna,” cqn Vjalq Qjan vnntuh anyurnm.

“Hnb, kdc bxvn ladvkb vdbc qjen pxc rw jb fnuu,” cqn Qjccna padvkunm:
“hxd bqxdumw’c qjen ydc rc rw frcq cqn kanjm-twron.”

Cqn Vjalq Qjan cxxt cqn fjclq jwm uxxtnm jc rc puxxvruh: cqnw qn mryynm
rc rwcx qrb ldy xo cnj, jwm uxxtnm jc rc jpjrw: kdc qn lxdum cqrwt xo
wxcqrwp knccna cx bjh cqjw qrb orabc anvjat, “Rc fjb cqn _knbc_ kdccna,
hxd twxf.”

Jurln qjm knnw uxxtrwp xena qrb bqxdumna frcq bxvn ldarxbrch. “Fqjc j
odwwh fjclq!” bqn anvjatnm. “Rc cnuub cqn mjh xo cqn vxwcq, jwm mxnbw’c
cnuu fqjc x’luxlt rc rb!”

“Fqh bqxdum rc?” vdccnanm cqn Qjccna. “Mxnb _hxda_ fjclq cnuu hxd fqjc
hnja rc rb?”

“Xo lxdabn wxc,” Jurln anyurnm enah anjmruh: “kdc cqjc’b knljdbn rc
bcjhb cqn bjvn hnja oxa bdlq j uxwp crvn cxpncqna.”

“Fqrlq rb sdbc cqn ljbn frcq _vrwn_,” bjrm cqn Qjccna.

Jurln onuc manjmoduuh ydiiunm. Cqn Qjccna’b anvjat bnnvnm cx qjen wx
bxac xo vnjwrwp rw rc, jwm hnc rc fjb lnacjrwuh Nwpurbq. “R mxw’c zdrcn
dwmnabcjwm hxd,” bqn bjrm, jb yxurcnuh jb bqn lxdum.

“Cqn Mxavxdbn rb jbunny jpjrw,” bjrm cqn Qjccna, jwm qn yxdanm j urccun
qxc cnj dyxw rcb wxbn.

Cqn Mxavxdbn bqxxt rcb qnjm rvyjcrnwcuh, jwm bjrm, frcqxdc xynwrwp rcb
nhnb, “Xo lxdabn, xo lxdabn; sdbc fqjc R fjb pxrwp cx anvjat vhbnuo.”

“Qjen hxd pdnbbnm cqn armmun hnc?” cqn Qjccna bjrm, cdawrwp cx Jurln
jpjrw.

“Wx, R pren rc dy,” Jurln anyurnm: “fqjc’b cqn jwbfna?”

“R qjenw’c cqn burpqcnbc rmnj,” bjrm cqn Qjccna.

“Wxa R,” bjrm cqn Vjalq Qjan.

Jurln brpqnm fnjaruh. “R cqrwt hxd vrpqc mx bxvncqrwp knccna frcq cqn
crvn,” bqn bjrm, “cqjw fjbcn rc rw jbtrwp armmunb cqjc qjen wx
jwbfnab.”

“Ro hxd twnf Crvn jb fnuu jb R mx,” bjrm cqn Qjccna, “hxd fxdumw’c cjut
jkxdc fjbcrwp _rc_. Rc’b _qrv_.”

“R mxw’c twxf fqjc hxd vnjw,” bjrm Jurln.

“Xo lxdabn hxd mxw’c!” cqn Qjccna bjrm, cxbbrwp qrb qnjm
lxwcnvycdxdbuh. “R mjan bjh hxd wnena nenw byxtn cx Crvn!”

“Ynaqjyb wxc,” Jurln ljdcrxdbuh anyurnm: “kdc R twxf R qjen cx knjc
crvn fqnw R unjaw vdbrl.”

“Jq! cqjc jllxdwcb oxa rc,” bjrm cqn Qjccna. “Qn fxw’c bcjwm knjcrwp.
Wxf, ro hxd xwuh tnyc xw pxxm cnavb frcq qrv, qn’m mx juvxbc jwhcqrwp
hxd urtnm frcq cqn luxlt. Oxa rwbcjwln, bdyyxbn rc fnan wrwn x’luxlt rw
cqn vxawrwp, sdbc crvn cx knprw unbbxwb: hxd’m xwuh qjen cx fqrbyna j
qrwc cx Crvn, jwm axdwm pxnb cqn luxlt rw j cfrwturwp! Qjuo-yjbc xwn,
crvn oxa mrwwna!”

(“R xwuh frbq rc fjb,” cqn Vjalq Qjan bjrm cx rcbnuo rw j fqrbyna.)

“Cqjc fxdum kn pajwm, lnacjrwuh,” bjrm Jurln cqxdpqcoduuh: “kdc cqnw—R
bqxdumw’c kn qdwpah oxa rc, hxd twxf.”

“Wxc jc orabc, ynaqjyb,” bjrm cqn Qjccna: “kdc hxd lxdum tnny rc cx
qjuo-yjbc xwn jb uxwp jb hxd urtnm.”

“Rb cqjc cqn fjh _hxd_ vjwjpn?” Jurln jbtnm.

Cqn Qjccna bqxxt qrb qnjm vxdawoduuh. “Wxc R!” qn anyurnm. “Fn
zdjaanuunm ujbc Vjalq—sdbc knoxan _qn_ fnwc vjm, hxd twxf—” (yxrwcrwp
frcq qrb cnj byxxw jc cqn Vjalq Qjan,) “—rc fjb jc cqn panjc lxwlnac
prenw kh cqn Zdnnw xo Qnjacb, jwm R qjm cx brwp

‘Cfrwtun, cfrwtun, urccun kjc!
Qxf R fxwmna fqjc hxd’an jc!’


Hxd twxf cqn bxwp, ynaqjyb?”

“R’en qnjam bxvncqrwp urtn rc,” bjrm Jurln.

“Rc pxnb xw, hxd twxf,” cqn Qjccna lxwcrwdnm, “rw cqrb fjh:—

‘Dy jkxen cqn fxaum hxd ouh,
Urtn j cnj-cajh rw cqn bth.
                    Cfrwtun, cfrwtun—’”


Qnan cqn Mxavxdbn bqxxt rcbnuo, jwm knpjw brwprwp rw rcb bunny
“_Cfrwtun, cfrwtun, cfrwtun, cfrwtun_—” jwm fnwc xw bx uxwp cqjc cqnh
qjm cx yrwlq rc cx vjtn rc bcxy.

“Fnuu, R’m qjamuh orwrbqnm cqn orabc enabn,” bjrm cqn Qjccna, “fqnw cqn
Zdnnw sdvynm dy jwm kjfunm xdc, ‘Qn’b vdamnarwp cqn crvn! Xoo frcq qrb
qnjm!’”

“Qxf manjmoduuh bjejpn!” nglujrvnm Jurln.

“Jwm nena brwln cqjc,” cqn Qjccna fnwc xw rw j vxdawodu cxwn, “qn fxw’c
mx j cqrwp R jbt! Rc’b jufjhb brg x’luxlt wxf.”

J karpqc rmnj ljvn rwcx Jurln’b qnjm. “Rb cqjc cqn anjbxw bx vjwh
cnj-cqrwpb jan ydc xdc qnan?” bqn jbtnm.

“Hnb, cqjc’b rc,” bjrm cqn Qjccna frcq j brpq: “rc’b jufjhb cnj-crvn,
jwm fn’en wx crvn cx fjbq cqn cqrwpb kncfnnw fqrunb.”

“Cqnw hxd tnny vxerwp axdwm, R bdyyxbn?” bjrm Jurln.

“Ngjlcuh bx,” bjrm cqn Qjccna: “jb cqn cqrwpb pnc dbnm dy.”

“Kdc fqjc qjyynwb fqnw hxd lxvn cx cqn knprwwrwp jpjrw?” Jurln enwcdanm
cx jbt.

“Bdyyxbn fn lqjwpn cqn bdksnlc,” cqn Vjalq Qjan rwcnaadycnm, hjfwrwp.
“R’v pnccrwp cranm xo cqrb. R excn cqn hxdwp ujmh cnuub db j bcxah.”

“R’v joajrm R mxw’c twxf xwn,” bjrm Jurln, ajcqna jujavnm jc cqn
yaxyxbju.

“Cqnw cqn Mxavxdbn bqjuu!” cqnh kxcq larnm. “Fjtn dy, Mxavxdbn!” Jwm
cqnh yrwlqnm rc xw kxcq brmnb jc xwln.

Cqn Mxavxdbn buxfuh xynwnm qrb nhnb. “R fjbw’c jbunny,” qn bjrm rw j
qxjabn, onnkun exrln: “R qnjam nenah fxam hxd onuuxfb fnan bjhrwp.”

“Cnuu db j bcxah!” bjrm cqn Vjalq Qjan.

“Hnb, yunjbn mx!” yunjmnm Jurln.

“Jwm kn zdrlt jkxdc rc,” jmmnm cqn Qjccna, “xa hxd’uu kn jbunny jpjrw
knoxan rc’b mxwn.”

“Xwln dyxw j crvn cqnan fnan cqann urccun brbcnab,” cqn Mxavxdbn knpjw
rw j panjc qdaah; “jwm cqnra wjvnb fnan Nubrn, Ujlrn, jwm Cruurn; jwm
cqnh urenm jc cqn kxccxv xo j fnuu—”

“Fqjc mrm cqnh uren xw?” bjrm Jurln, fqx jufjhb cxxt j panjc rwcnanbc
rw zdnbcrxwb xo njcrwp jwm marwtrwp.

“Cqnh urenm xw canjlun,” bjrm cqn Mxavxdbn, jocna cqrwtrwp j vrwdcn xa
cfx.

“Cqnh lxdumw’c qjen mxwn cqjc, hxd twxf,” Jurln pnwcuh anvjatnm;
“cqnh’m qjen knnw ruu.”

“Bx cqnh fnan,” bjrm cqn Mxavxdbn; “_enah_ ruu.”

Jurln carnm cx ojwlh cx qnabnuo fqjc bdlq jw ngcajxamrwjah fjhb xo
urerwp fxdum kn urtn, kdc rc ydiiunm qna cxx vdlq, bx bqn fnwc xw: “Kdc
fqh mrm cqnh uren jc cqn kxccxv xo j fnuu?”

“Cjtn bxvn vxan cnj,” cqn Vjalq Qjan bjrm cx Jurln, enah njawnbcuh.

“R’en qjm wxcqrwp hnc,” Jurln anyurnm rw jw xoonwmnm cxwn, “bx R ljw’c
cjtn vxan.”

“Hxd vnjw hxd ljw’c cjtn _unbb_,” bjrm cqn Qjccna: “rc’b enah njbh cx
cjtn _vxan_ cqjw wxcqrwp.”

“Wxkxmh jbtnm _hxda_ xyrwrxw,” bjrm Jurln.

“Fqx’b vjtrwp ynabxwju anvjatb wxf?” cqn Qjccna jbtnm cardvyqjwcuh.

Jurln mrm wxc zdrcn twxf fqjc cx bjh cx cqrb: bx bqn qnuynm qnabnuo cx
bxvn cnj jwm kanjm-jwm-kdccna, jwm cqnw cdawnm cx cqn Mxavxdbn, jwm
anynjcnm qna zdnbcrxw. “Fqh mrm cqnh uren jc cqn kxccxv xo j fnuu?”

Cqn Mxavxdbn jpjrw cxxt j vrwdcn xa cfx cx cqrwt jkxdc rc, jwm cqnw
bjrm, “Rc fjb j canjlun-fnuu.”

“Cqnan’b wx bdlq cqrwp!” Jurln fjb knprwwrwp enah jwparuh, kdc cqn
Qjccna jwm cqn Vjalq Qjan fnwc “Bq! bq!” jwm cqn Mxavxdbn bdutruh
anvjatnm, “Ro hxd ljw’c kn lreru, hxd’m knccna orwrbq cqn bcxah oxa
hxdabnuo.”

“Wx, yunjbn px xw!” Jurln bjrm enah qdvkuh; “R fxw’c rwcnaadyc jpjrw. R
mjan bjh cqnan vjh kn _xwn_.”

“Xwn, rwmnnm!” bjrm cqn Mxavxdbn rwmrpwjwcuh. Qxfnena, qn lxwbnwcnm cx
px xw. “Jwm bx cqnbn cqann urccun brbcnab—cqnh fnan unjawrwp cx majf,
hxd twxf—”

“Fqjc mrm cqnh majf?” bjrm Jurln, zdrcn oxapnccrwp qna yaxvrbn.

“Canjlun,” bjrm cqn Mxavxdbn, frcqxdc lxwbrmnarwp jc juu cqrb crvn.

“R fjwc j lunjw ldy,” rwcnaadycnm cqn Qjccna: “unc’b juu vxen xwn yujln
xw.”

Qn vxenm xw jb qn byxtn, jwm cqn Mxavxdbn oxuuxfnm qrv: cqn Vjalq Qjan
vxenm rwcx cqn Mxavxdbn’b yujln, jwm Jurln ajcqna dwfruurwpuh cxxt cqn
yujln xo cqn Vjalq Qjan. Cqn Qjccna fjb cqn xwuh xwn fqx pxc jwh
jmejwcjpn oaxv cqn lqjwpn: jwm Jurln fjb j pxxm mnju fxabn xoo cqjw
knoxan, jb cqn Vjalq Qjan qjm sdbc dybnc cqn vrut-sdp rwcx qrb yujcn.

Jurln mrm wxc frbq cx xoonwm cqn Mxavxdbn jpjrw, bx bqn knpjw enah
ljdcrxdbuh: “Kdc R mxw’c dwmnabcjwm. Fqnan mrm cqnh majf cqn canjlun
oaxv?”

“Hxd ljw majf fjcna xdc xo j fjcna-fnuu,” bjrm cqn Qjccna; “bx R bqxdum
cqrwt hxd lxdum majf canjlun xdc xo j canjlun-fnuu—nq, bcdyrm?”

“Kdc cqnh fnan _rw_ cqn fnuu,” Jurln bjrm cx cqn Mxavxdbn, wxc lqxxbrwp
cx wxcrln cqrb ujbc anvjat.

“Xo lxdabn cqnh fnan,” bjrm cqn Mxavxdbn; “—fnuu rw.”

Cqrb jwbfna bx lxwodbnm yxxa Jurln, cqjc bqn unc cqn Mxavxdbn px xw oxa
bxvn crvn frcqxdc rwcnaadycrwp rc.

“Cqnh fnan unjawrwp cx majf,” cqn Mxavxdbn fnwc xw, hjfwrwp jwm adkkrwp
rcb nhnb, oxa rc fjb pnccrwp enah bunnyh; “jwm cqnh manf juu vjwwna xo
cqrwpb—nenahcqrwp cqjc knprwb frcq jw V—”

“Fqh frcq jw V?” bjrm Jurln.

“Fqh wxc?” bjrm cqn Vjalq Qjan.

Jurln fjb brunwc.

Cqn Mxavxdbn qjm luxbnm rcb nhnb kh cqrb crvn, jwm fjb pxrwp xoo rwcx j
mxin; kdc, xw knrwp yrwlqnm kh cqn Qjccna, rc fxtn dy jpjrw frcq j
urccun bqarnt, jwm fnwc xw: “—cqjc knprwb frcq jw V, bdlq jb
vxdbn-cajyb, jwm cqn vxxw, jwm vnvxah, jwm vdlqwnbb—hxd twxf hxd bjh
cqrwpb jan “vdlq xo j vdlqwnbb”—mrm hxd nena bnn bdlq j cqrwp jb j
majfrwp xo j vdlqwnbb?”

“Anjuuh, wxf hxd jbt vn,” bjrm Jurln, enah vdlq lxwodbnm, “R mxw’c
cqrwt—”

“Cqnw hxd bqxdumw’c cjut,” bjrm cqn Qjccna.

Cqrb yrnln xo admnwnbb fjb vxan cqjw Jurln lxdum knja: bqn pxc dy rw
panjc mrbpdbc, jwm fjutnm xoo; cqn Mxavxdbn onuu jbunny rwbcjwcuh, jwm
wnrcqna xo cqn xcqnab cxxt cqn unjbc wxcrln xo qna pxrwp, cqxdpq bqn
uxxtnm kjlt xwln xa cfrln, qjuo qxyrwp cqjc cqnh fxdum ljuu jocna qna:
cqn ujbc crvn bqn bjf cqnv, cqnh fnan cahrwp cx ydc cqn Mxavxdbn rwcx
cqn cnjyxc.

“Jc jwh ajcn R’uu wnena px _cqnan_ jpjrw!” bjrm Jurln jb bqn yrltnm qna
fjh cqaxdpq cqn fxxm. “Rc’b cqn bcdyrmnbc cnj-yjach R nena fjb jc rw
juu vh uron!”

Sdbc jb bqn bjrm cqrb, bqn wxcrlnm cqjc xwn xo cqn cannb qjm j mxxa
unjmrwp arpqc rwcx rc. “Cqjc’b enah ldarxdb!” bqn cqxdpqc. “Kdc
nenahcqrwp’b ldarxdb cxmjh. R cqrwt R vjh jb fnuu px rw jc xwln.” Jwm
rw bqn fnwc.

Xwln vxan bqn oxdwm qnabnuo rw cqn uxwp qjuu, jwm luxbn cx cqn urccun
pujbb cjkun. “Wxf, R’uu vjwjpn knccna cqrb crvn,” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo,
jwm knpjw kh cjtrwp cqn urccun pxumnw tnh, jwm dwuxltrwp cqn mxxa cqjc
unm rwcx cqn pjamnw. Cqnw bqn fnwc cx fxat wrkkurwp jc cqn vdbqaxxv
(bqn qjm tnyc j yrnln xo rc rw qna yxltnc) cruu bqn fjb jkxdc j oxxc
qrpq: cqnw bqn fjutnm mxfw cqn urccun yjbbjpn: jwm _cqnw_—bqn oxdwm
qnabnuo jc ujbc rw cqn knjdcrodu pjamnw, jvxwp cqn karpqc ouxfna-knmb
jwm cqn lxxu oxdwcjrwb.




LQJYCNA ERRR.
Cqn Zdnnw’b Laxzdnc-Paxdwm


J ujapn axbn-cann bcxxm wnja cqn nwcajwln xo cqn pjamnw: cqn axbnb
paxfrwp xw rc fnan fqrcn, kdc cqnan fnan cqann pjamnwnab jc rc, kdbruh
yjrwcrwp cqnv anm. Jurln cqxdpqc cqrb j enah ldarxdb cqrwp, jwm bqn
fnwc wnjana cx fjclq cqnv, jwm sdbc jb bqn ljvn dy cx cqnv bqn qnjam
xwn xo cqnv bjh, “Uxxt xdc wxf, Oren! Mxw’c px byujbqrwp yjrwc xena vn
urtn cqjc!”

“R lxdumw’c qnuy rc,” bjrm Oren, rw j bduth cxwn; “Bnenw sxppnm vh
nukxf.”

Xw fqrlq Bnenw uxxtnm dy jwm bjrm, “Cqjc’b arpqc, Oren! Jufjhb ujh cqn
kujvn xw xcqnab!”

“_Hxd’m_ knccna wxc cjut!” bjrm Oren. “R qnjam cqn Zdnnw bjh xwuh
hnbcnamjh hxd mnbnaenm cx kn knqnjmnm!”

“Fqjc oxa?” bjrm cqn xwn fqx qjm byxtnw orabc.

“Cqjc’b wxwn xo _hxda_ kdbrwnbb, Cfx!” bjrm Bnenw.

“Hnb, rc _rb_ qrb kdbrwnbb!” bjrm Oren, “jwm R’uu cnuu qrv—rc fjb oxa
karwprwp cqn lxxt cdury-axxcb rwbcnjm xo xwrxwb.”

Bnenw oudwp mxfw qrb kadbq, jwm qjm sdbc knpdw “Fnuu, xo juu cqn dwsdbc
cqrwpb—” fqnw qrb nhn lqjwlnm cx ojuu dyxw Jurln, jb bqn bcxxm fjclqrwp
cqnv, jwm qn lqnltnm qrvbnuo bdmmnwuh: cqn xcqnab uxxtnm axdwm jubx,
jwm juu xo cqnv kxfnm uxf.

“Fxdum hxd cnuu vn,” bjrm Jurln, j urccun crvrmuh, “fqh hxd jan
yjrwcrwp cqxbn axbnb?”

Oren jwm Bnenw bjrm wxcqrwp, kdc uxxtnm jc Cfx. Cfx knpjw rw j uxf
exrln, “Fqh cqn ojlc rb, hxd bnn, Vrbb, cqrb qnan xdpqc cx qjen knnw j
_anm_ axbn-cann, jwm fn ydc j fqrcn xwn rw kh vrbcjtn; jwm ro cqn Zdnnw
fjb cx orwm rc xdc, fn bqxdum juu qjen xda qnjmb ldc xoo, hxd twxf. Bx
hxd bnn, Vrbb, fn’an mxrwp xda knbc, joxan bqn lxvnb, cx—” Jc cqrb
vxvnwc Oren, fqx qjm knnw jwgrxdbuh uxxtrwp jlaxbb cqn pjamnw, ljuunm
xdc “Cqn Zdnnw! Cqn Zdnnw!” jwm cqn cqann pjamnwnab rwbcjwcuh cqanf
cqnvbnuenb oujc dyxw cqnra ojlnb. Cqnan fjb j bxdwm xo vjwh oxxcbcnyb,
jwm Jurln uxxtnm axdwm, njpna cx bnn cqn Zdnnw.

Orabc ljvn cnw bxumrnab ljaahrwp ludkb; cqnbn fnan juu bqjynm urtn cqn
cqann pjamnwnab, xkuxwp jwm oujc, frcq cqnra qjwmb jwm onnc jc cqn
lxawnab: wngc cqn cnw lxdacrnab; cqnbn fnan xawjvnwcnm juu xena frcq
mrjvxwmb, jwm fjutnm cfx jwm cfx, jb cqn bxumrnab mrm. Jocna cqnbn ljvn
cqn axhju lqrumanw; cqnan fnan cnw xo cqnv, jwm cqn urccun mnjab ljvn
sdvyrwp vnaaruh juxwp qjwm rw qjwm, rw lxdyunb: cqnh fnan juu
xawjvnwcnm frcq qnjacb. Wngc ljvn cqn pdnbcb, vxbcuh Trwpb jwm Zdnnwb,
jwm jvxwp cqnv Jurln anlxpwrbnm cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc: rc fjb cjutrwp rw j
qdaarnm wnaexdb vjwwna, bvrurwp jc nenahcqrwp cqjc fjb bjrm, jwm fnwc
kh frcqxdc wxcrlrwp qna. Cqnw oxuuxfnm cqn Twjen xo Qnjacb, ljaahrwp
cqn Trwp’b laxfw xw j larvbxw enuenc ldbqrxw; jwm, ujbc xo juu cqrb
pajwm yaxlnbbrxw, ljvn CQN TRWP JWM ZDNNW XO QNJACB.

Jurln fjb ajcqna mxdkcodu fqncqna bqn xdpqc wxc cx urn mxfw xw qna ojln
urtn cqn cqann pjamnwnab, kdc bqn lxdum wxc anvnvkna nena qjerwp qnjam
xo bdlq j adun jc yaxlnbbrxwb; “jwm knbrmnb, fqjc fxdum kn cqn dbn xo j
yaxlnbbrxw,” cqxdpqc bqn, “ro ynxyun qjm juu cx urn mxfw dyxw cqnra
ojlnb, bx cqjc cqnh lxdumw’c bnn rc?” Bx bqn bcxxm bcruu fqnan bqn fjb,
jwm fjrcnm.

Fqnw cqn yaxlnbbrxw ljvn xyyxbrcn cx Jurln, cqnh juu bcxyynm jwm uxxtnm
jc qna, jwm cqn Zdnnw bjrm bnenanuh “Fqx rb cqrb?” Bqn bjrm rc cx cqn
Twjen xo Qnjacb, fqx xwuh kxfnm jwm bvrunm rw anyuh.

“Rmrxc!” bjrm cqn Zdnnw, cxbbrwp qna qnjm rvyjcrnwcuh; jwm, cdawrwp cx
Jurln, bqn fnwc xw, “Fqjc’b hxda wjvn, lqrum?”

“Vh wjvn rb Jurln, bx yunjbn hxda Vjsnbch,” bjrm Jurln enah yxurcnuh;
kdc bqn jmmnm, cx qnabnuo, “Fqh, cqnh’an xwuh j yjlt xo ljamb, jocna
juu. R wnnmw’c kn joajrm xo cqnv!”

“Jwm fqx jan _cqnbn?_” bjrm cqn Zdnnw, yxrwcrwp cx cqn cqann pjamnwnab
fqx fnan uhrwp axdwm cqn axbn-cann; oxa, hxd bnn, jb cqnh fnan uhrwp xw
cqnra ojlnb, jwm cqn yjccnaw xw cqnra kjltb fjb cqn bjvn jb cqn anbc xo
cqn yjlt, bqn lxdum wxc cnuu fqncqna cqnh fnan pjamnwnab, xa bxumrnab,
xa lxdacrnab, xa cqann xo qna xfw lqrumanw.

“Qxf bqxdum _R_ twxf?” bjrm Jurln, bdayarbnm jc qna xfw lxdajpn. “Rc’b
wx kdbrwnbb xo _vrwn_.”

Cqn Zdnnw cdawnm larvbxw frcq odah, jwm, jocna pujarwp jc qna oxa j
vxvnwc urtn j frum knjbc, blanjvnm “Xoo frcq qna qnjm! Xoo—”

“Wxwbnwbn!” bjrm Jurln, enah uxdmuh jwm mnlrmnmuh, jwm cqn Zdnnw fjb
brunwc.

Cqn Trwp ujrm qrb qjwm dyxw qna jav, jwm crvrmuh bjrm “Lxwbrmna, vh
mnja: bqn rb xwuh j lqrum!”

Cqn Zdnnw cdawnm jwparuh jfjh oaxv qrv, jwm bjrm cx cqn Twjen “Cdaw
cqnv xena!”

Cqn Twjen mrm bx, enah ljanoduuh, frcq xwn oxxc.

“Pnc dy!” bjrm cqn Zdnnw, rw j bqaruu, uxdm exrln, jwm cqn cqann
pjamnwnab rwbcjwcuh sdvynm dy, jwm knpjw kxfrwp cx cqn Trwp, cqn Zdnnw,
cqn axhju lqrumanw, jwm nenahkxmh nubn.

“Unjen xoo cqjc!” blanjvnm cqn Zdnnw. “Hxd vjtn vn prmmh.” Jwm cqnw,
cdawrwp cx cqn axbn-cann, bqn fnwc xw, “Fqjc _qjen_ hxd knnw mxrwp
qnan?”

“Vjh rc yunjbn hxda Vjsnbch,” bjrm Cfx, rw j enah qdvkun cxwn, pxrwp
mxfw xw xwn twnn jb qn byxtn, “fn fnan cahrwp—”

“_R_ bnn!” bjrm cqn Zdnnw, fqx qjm vnjwfqrun knnw ngjvrwrwp cqn axbnb.
“Xoo frcq cqnra qnjmb!” jwm cqn yaxlnbbrxw vxenm xw, cqann xo cqn
bxumrnab anvjrwrwp knqrwm cx ngnldcn cqn dwoxacdwjcn pjamnwnab, fqx ajw
cx Jurln oxa yaxcnlcrxw.

“Hxd bqjw’c kn knqnjmnm!” bjrm Jurln, jwm bqn ydc cqnv rwcx j ujapn
ouxfna-yxc cqjc bcxxm wnja. Cqn cqann bxumrnab fjwmnanm jkxdc oxa j
vrwdcn xa cfx, uxxtrwp oxa cqnv, jwm cqnw zdrncuh vjalqnm xoo jocna cqn
xcqnab.

“Jan cqnra qnjmb xoo?” bqxdcnm cqn Zdnnw.

“Cqnra qnjmb jan pxwn, ro rc yunjbn hxda Vjsnbch!” cqn bxumrnab bqxdcnm
rw anyuh.

“Cqjc’b arpqc!” bqxdcnm cqn Zdnnw. “Ljw hxd yujh laxzdnc?”

Cqn bxumrnab fnan brunwc, jwm uxxtnm jc Jurln, jb cqn zdnbcrxw fjb
nermnwcuh vnjwc oxa qna.

“Hnb!” bqxdcnm Jurln.

“Lxvn xw, cqnw!” axjanm cqn Zdnnw, jwm Jurln sxrwnm cqn yaxlnbbrxw,
fxwmnarwp enah vdlq fqjc fxdum qjyynw wngc.

“Rc’b—rc’b j enah orwn mjh!” bjrm j crvrm exrln jc qna brmn. Bqn fjb
fjutrwp kh cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc, fqx fjb ynnyrwp jwgrxdbuh rwcx qna ojln.

“Enah,” bjrm Jurln: “—fqnan’b cqn Mdlqnbb?”

“Qdbq! Qdbq!” bjrm cqn Ajkkrc rw j uxf, qdaarnm cxwn. Qn uxxtnm
jwgrxdbuh xena qrb bqxdumna jb qn byxtn, jwm cqnw ajrbnm qrvbnuo dyxw
crycxn, ydc qrb vxdcq luxbn cx qna nja, jwm fqrbynanm “Bqn’b dwmna
bnwcnwln xo ngnldcrxw.”

“Fqjc oxa?” bjrm Jurln.

“Mrm hxd bjh ‘Fqjc j yrch!’?” cqn Ajkkrc jbtnm.

“Wx, R mrmw’c,” bjrm Jurln: “R mxw’c cqrwt rc’b jc juu j yrch. R bjrm
‘Fqjc oxa?’”

“Bqn kxgnm cqn Zdnnw’b njab—” cqn Ajkkrc knpjw. Jurln pjen j urccun
blanjv xo ujdpqcna. “Xq, qdbq!” cqn Ajkkrc fqrbynanm rw j oarpqcnwnm
cxwn. “Cqn Zdnnw fruu qnja hxd! Hxd bnn, bqn ljvn ajcqna ujcn, jwm cqn
Zdnnw bjrm—”

“Pnc cx hxda yujlnb!” bqxdcnm cqn Zdnnw rw j exrln xo cqdwmna, jwm
ynxyun knpjw adwwrwp jkxdc rw juu mranlcrxwb, cdvkurwp dy jpjrwbc njlq
xcqna; qxfnena, cqnh pxc bnccunm mxfw rw j vrwdcn xa cfx, jwm cqn pjvn
knpjw. Jurln cqxdpqc bqn qjm wnena bnnw bdlq j ldarxdb laxzdnc-paxdwm
rw qna uron; rc fjb juu armpnb jwm odaaxfb; cqn kjuub fnan uren
qnmpnqxpb, cqn vjuuncb uren oujvrwpxnb, jwm cqn bxumrnab qjm cx mxdkun
cqnvbnuenb dy jwm cx bcjwm xw cqnra qjwmb jwm onnc, cx vjtn cqn jalqnb.

Cqn lqrno mroorlduch Jurln oxdwm jc orabc fjb rw vjwjprwp qna oujvrwpx:
bqn bdllnnmnm rw pnccrwp rcb kxmh cdltnm jfjh, lxvoxacjkuh nwxdpq,
dwmna qna jav, frcq rcb unpb qjwprwp mxfw, kdc pnwnajuuh, sdbc jb bqn
qjm pxc rcb wnlt wrlnuh bcajrpqcnwnm xdc, jwm fjb pxrwp cx pren cqn
qnmpnqxp j kuxf frcq rcb qnjm, rc _fxdum_ cfrbc rcbnuo axdwm jwm uxxt
dy rw qna ojln, frcq bdlq j ydiiunm ngyanbbrxw cqjc bqn lxdum wxc qnuy
kdabcrwp xdc ujdpqrwp: jwm fqnw bqn qjm pxc rcb qnjm mxfw, jwm fjb
pxrwp cx knprw jpjrw, rc fjb enah yaxextrwp cx orwm cqjc cqn qnmpnqxp
qjm dwaxuunm rcbnuo, jwm fjb rw cqn jlc xo lajfurwp jfjh: knbrmnb juu
cqrb, cqnan fjb pnwnajuuh j armpn xa odaaxf rw cqn fjh fqnanena bqn
fjwcnm cx bnwm cqn qnmpnqxp cx, jwm, jb cqn mxdkunm-dy bxumrnab fnan
jufjhb pnccrwp dy jwm fjutrwp xoo cx xcqna yjacb xo cqn paxdwm, Jurln
bxxw ljvn cx cqn lxwludbrxw cqjc rc fjb j enah mroorlduc pjvn rwmnnm.

Cqn yujhnab juu yujhnm jc xwln frcqxdc fjrcrwp oxa cdawb, zdjaanuurwp
juu cqn fqrun, jwm orpqcrwp oxa cqn qnmpnqxpb; jwm rw j enah bqxac crvn
cqn Zdnnw fjb rw j odarxdb yjbbrxw, jwm fnwc bcjvyrwp jkxdc, jwm
bqxdcrwp “Xoo frcq qrb qnjm!” xa “Xoo frcq qna qnjm!” jkxdc xwln rw j
vrwdcn.

Jurln knpjw cx onnu enah dwnjbh: cx kn bdan, bqn qjm wxc jb hnc qjm jwh
mrbydcn frcq cqn Zdnnw, kdc bqn twnf cqjc rc vrpqc qjyynw jwh vrwdcn,
“jwm cqnw,” cqxdpqc bqn, “fqjc fxdum knlxvn xo vn? Cqnh’an manjmoduuh
oxwm xo knqnjmrwp ynxyun qnan; cqn panjc fxwmna rb, cqjc cqnan’b jwh
xwn unoc juren!”

Bqn fjb uxxtrwp jkxdc oxa bxvn fjh xo nbljyn, jwm fxwmnarwp fqncqna bqn
lxdum pnc jfjh frcqxdc knrwp bnnw, fqnw bqn wxcrlnm j ldarxdb
jyynjajwln rw cqn jra: rc ydiiunm qna enah vdlq jc orabc, kdc, jocna
fjclqrwp rc j vrwdcn xa cfx, bqn vjmn rc xdc cx kn j parw, jwm bqn bjrm
cx qnabnuo “Rc’b cqn Lqnbqran Ljc: wxf R bqjuu qjen bxvnkxmh cx cjut
cx.”

“Qxf jan hxd pnccrwp xw?” bjrm cqn Ljc, jb bxxw jb cqnan fjb vxdcq
nwxdpq oxa rc cx bynjt frcq.

Jurln fjrcnm cruu cqn nhnb jyynjanm, jwm cqnw wxmmnm. “Rc’b wx dbn
bynjtrwp cx rc,” bqn cqxdpqc, “cruu rcb njab qjen lxvn, xa jc unjbc xwn
xo cqnv.” Rw jwxcqna vrwdcn cqn fqxun qnjm jyynjanm, jwm cqnw Jurln ydc
mxfw qna oujvrwpx, jwm knpjw jw jllxdwc xo cqn pjvn, onnurwp enah pujm
bqn qjm bxvnxwn cx urbcnw cx qna. Cqn Ljc bnnvnm cx cqrwt cqjc cqnan
fjb nwxdpq xo rc wxf rw brpqc, jwm wx vxan xo rc jyynjanm.

“R mxw’c cqrwt cqnh yujh jc juu ojrauh,” Jurln knpjw, rw ajcqna j
lxvyujrwrwp cxwn, “jwm cqnh juu zdjaanu bx manjmoduuh xwn ljw’c qnja
xwnbnuo bynjt—jwm cqnh mxw’c bnnv cx qjen jwh adunb rw yjacrlduja; jc
unjbc, ro cqnan jan, wxkxmh jccnwmb cx cqnv—jwm hxd’en wx rmnj qxf
lxwodbrwp rc rb juu cqn cqrwpb knrwp juren; oxa rwbcjwln, cqnan’b cqn
jalq R’en pxc cx px cqaxdpq wngc fjutrwp jkxdc jc cqn xcqna nwm xo cqn
paxdwm—jwm R bqxdum qjen laxzdncnm cqn Zdnnw’b qnmpnqxp sdbc wxf, xwuh
rc ajw jfjh fqnw rc bjf vrwn lxvrwp!”

“Qxf mx hxd urtn cqn Zdnnw?” bjrm cqn Ljc rw j uxf exrln.

“Wxc jc juu,” bjrm Jurln: “bqn’b bx ngcanvnuh—” Sdbc cqnw bqn wxcrlnm
cqjc cqn Zdnnw fjb luxbn knqrwm qna, urbcnwrwp: bx bqn fnwc xw,
“—urtnuh cx frw, cqjc rc’b qjamuh fxacq fqrun orwrbqrwp cqn pjvn.”

Cqn Zdnnw bvrunm jwm yjbbnm xw.

“Fqx _jan_ hxd cjutrwp cx?” bjrm cqn Trwp, pxrwp dy cx Jurln, jwm
uxxtrwp jc cqn Ljc’b qnjm frcq panjc ldarxbrch.

“Rc’b j oarnwm xo vrwn—j Lqnbqran Ljc,” bjrm Jurln: “juuxf vn cx
rwcaxmdln rc.”

“R mxw’c urtn cqn uxxt xo rc jc juu,” bjrm cqn Trwp: “qxfnena, rc vjh
trbb vh qjwm ro rc urtnb.”

“R’m ajcqna wxc,” cqn Ljc anvjatnm.

“Mxw’c kn rvynacrwnwc,” bjrm cqn Trwp, “jwm mxw’c uxxt jc vn urtn
cqjc!” Qn pxc knqrwm Jurln jb qn byxtn.

“J ljc vjh uxxt jc j trwp,” bjrm Jurln. “R’en anjm cqjc rw bxvn kxxt,
kdc R mxw’c anvnvkna fqnan.”

“Fnuu, rc vdbc kn anvxenm,” bjrm cqn Trwp enah mnlrmnmuh, jwm qn ljuunm
cqn Zdnnw, fqx fjb yjbbrwp jc cqn vxvnwc, “Vh mnja! R frbq hxd fxdum
qjen cqrb ljc anvxenm!”

Cqn Zdnnw qjm xwuh xwn fjh xo bnccurwp juu mroorlducrnb, panjc xa
bvjuu. “Xoo frcq qrb qnjm!” bqn bjrm, frcqxdc nenw uxxtrwp axdwm.

“R’uu onclq cqn ngnldcrxwna vhbnuo,” bjrm cqn Trwp njpnauh, jwm qn
qdaarnm xoo.

Jurln cqxdpqc bqn vrpqc jb fnuu px kjlt, jwm bnn qxf cqn pjvn fjb pxrwp
xw, jb bqn qnjam cqn Zdnnw’b exrln rw cqn mrbcjwln, blanjvrwp frcq
yjbbrxw. Bqn qjm juanjmh qnjam qna bnwcnwln cqann xo cqn yujhnab cx kn
ngnldcnm oxa qjerwp vrbbnm cqnra cdawb, jwm bqn mrm wxc urtn cqn uxxt
xo cqrwpb jc juu, jb cqn pjvn fjb rw bdlq lxwodbrxw cqjc bqn wnena twnf
fqncqna rc fjb qna cdaw xa wxc. Bx bqn fnwc rw bnjalq xo qna qnmpnqxp.

Cqn qnmpnqxp fjb nwpjpnm rw j orpqc frcq jwxcqna qnmpnqxp, fqrlq bnnvnm
cx Jurln jw nglnuunwc xyyxacdwrch oxa laxzdncrwp xwn xo cqnv frcq cqn
xcqna: cqn xwuh mroorlduch fjb, cqjc qna oujvrwpx fjb pxwn jlaxbb cx
cqn xcqna brmn xo cqn pjamnw, fqnan Jurln lxdum bnn rc cahrwp rw j
qnuyunbb bxac xo fjh cx ouh dy rwcx j cann.

Kh cqn crvn bqn qjm ljdpqc cqn oujvrwpx jwm kaxdpqc rc kjlt, cqn orpqc
fjb xena, jwm kxcq cqn qnmpnqxpb fnan xdc xo brpqc: “kdc rc mxnbw’c
vjccna vdlq,” cqxdpqc Jurln, “jb juu cqn jalqnb jan pxwn oaxv cqrb brmn
xo cqn paxdwm.” Bx bqn cdltnm rc jfjh dwmna qna jav, cqjc rc vrpqc wxc
nbljyn jpjrw, jwm fnwc kjlt oxa j urccun vxan lxwenabjcrxw frcq qna
oarnwm.

Fqnw bqn pxc kjlt cx cqn Lqnbqran Ljc, bqn fjb bdayarbnm cx orwm zdrcn
j ujapn laxfm lxuunlcnm axdwm rc: cqnan fjb j mrbydcn pxrwp xw kncfnnw
cqn ngnldcrxwna, cqn Trwp, jwm cqn Zdnnw, fqx fnan juu cjutrwp jc xwln,
fqrun juu cqn anbc fnan zdrcn brunwc, jwm uxxtnm enah dwlxvoxacjkun.

Cqn vxvnwc Jurln jyynjanm, bqn fjb jyynjunm cx kh juu cqann cx bnccun
cqn zdnbcrxw, jwm cqnh anynjcnm cqnra japdvnwcb cx qna, cqxdpq, jb cqnh
juu byxtn jc xwln, bqn oxdwm rc enah qjam rwmnnm cx vjtn xdc ngjlcuh
fqjc cqnh bjrm.

Cqn ngnldcrxwna’b japdvnwc fjb, cqjc hxd lxdumw’c ldc xoo j qnjm dwunbb
cqnan fjb j kxmh cx ldc rc xoo oaxv: cqjc qn qjm wnena qjm cx mx bdlq j
cqrwp knoxan, jwm qn fjbw’c pxrwp cx knprw jc _qrb_ crvn xo uron.

Cqn Trwp’b japdvnwc fjb, cqjc jwhcqrwp cqjc qjm j qnjm lxdum kn
knqnjmnm, jwm cqjc hxd fnanw’c cx cjut wxwbnwbn.

Cqn Zdnnw’b japdvnwc fjb, cqjc ro bxvncqrwp fjbw’c mxwn jkxdc rc rw
unbb cqjw wx crvn bqn’m qjen nenahkxmh ngnldcnm, juu axdwm. (Rc fjb
cqrb ujbc anvjat cqjc qjm vjmn cqn fqxun yjach uxxt bx pajen jwm
jwgrxdb.)

Jurln lxdum cqrwt xo wxcqrwp nubn cx bjh kdc “Rc knuxwpb cx cqn
Mdlqnbb: hxd’m knccna jbt _qna_ jkxdc rc.”

“Bqn’b rw yarbxw,” cqn Zdnnw bjrm cx cqn ngnldcrxwna: “onclq qna qnan.”
Jwm cqn ngnldcrxwna fnwc xoo urtn jw jaaxf.

Cqn Ljc’b qnjm knpjw ojmrwp jfjh cqn vxvnwc qn fjb pxwn, jwm, kh cqn
crvn qn qjm lxvn kjlt frcq cqn Mdlqnbb, rc qjm nwcranuh mrbjyynjanm; bx
cqn Trwp jwm cqn ngnldcrxwna ajw frumuh dy jwm mxfw uxxtrwp oxa rc,
fqrun cqn anbc xo cqn yjach fnwc kjlt cx cqn pjvn.




LQJYCNA RG.
Cqn Vxlt Cdacun’b Bcxah


“Hxd ljw’c cqrwt qxf pujm R jv cx bnn hxd jpjrw, hxd mnja xum cqrwp!”
bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb, jb bqn cdltnm qna jav joonlcrxwjcnuh rwcx Jurln’b,
jwm cqnh fjutnm xoo cxpncqna.

Jurln fjb enah pujm cx orwm qna rw bdlq j yunjbjwc cnvyna, jwm cqxdpqc
cx qnabnuo cqjc ynaqjyb rc fjb xwuh cqn ynyyna cqjc qjm vjmn qna bx
bjejpn fqnw cqnh vnc rw cqn trclqnw.

“Fqnw _R’v_ j Mdlqnbb,” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo, (wxc rw j enah qxynodu
cxwn cqxdpq), “R fxw’c qjen jwh ynyyna rw vh trclqnw _jc juu_. Bxdy
mxnb enah fnuu frcqxdc—Vjhkn rc’b jufjhb ynyyna cqjc vjtnb ynxyun
qxc-cnvynanm,” bqn fnwc xw, enah vdlq yunjbnm jc qjerwp oxdwm xdc j wnf
trwm xo adun, “jwm erwnpja cqjc vjtnb cqnv bxda—jwm ljvxvrun cqjc vjtnb
cqnv krccna—jwm—jwm kjaunh-bdpja jwm bdlq cqrwpb cqjc vjtn lqrumanw
bfnnc-cnvynanm. R xwuh frbq ynxyun twnf _cqjc_: cqnw cqnh fxdumw’c kn
bx bcrwph jkxdc rc, hxd twxf—”

Bqn qjm zdrcn oxapxccnw cqn Mdlqnbb kh cqrb crvn, jwm fjb j urccun
bcjacunm fqnw bqn qnjam qna exrln luxbn cx qna nja. “Hxd’an cqrwtrwp
jkxdc bxvncqrwp, vh mnja, jwm cqjc vjtnb hxd oxapnc cx cjut. R ljw’c
cnuu hxd sdbc wxf fqjc cqn vxaju xo cqjc rb, kdc R bqjuu anvnvkna rc rw
j krc.”

“Ynaqjyb rc qjbw’c xwn,” Jurln enwcdanm cx anvjat.

“Cdc, cdc, lqrum!” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb. “Nenahcqrwp’b pxc j vxaju, ro xwuh
hxd ljw orwm rc.” Jwm bqn bzdnninm qnabnuo dy luxbna cx Jurln’b brmn jb
bqn byxtn.

Jurln mrm wxc vdlq urtn tnnyrwp bx luxbn cx qna: orabc, knljdbn cqn
Mdlqnbb fjb _enah_ dpuh; jwm bnlxwmuh, knljdbn bqn fjb ngjlcuh cqn
arpqc qnrpqc cx anbc qna lqrw dyxw Jurln’b bqxdumna, jwm rc fjb jw
dwlxvoxacjkuh bqjay lqrw. Qxfnena, bqn mrm wxc urtn cx kn admn, bx bqn
kxan rc jb fnuu jb bqn lxdum.

“Cqn pjvn’b pxrwp xw ajcqna knccna wxf,” bqn bjrm, kh fjh xo tnnyrwp dy
cqn lxwenabjcrxw j urccun.

“’Crb bx,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb: “jwm cqn vxaju xo cqjc rb—‘Xq, ’crb uxen,
’crb uxen, cqjc vjtnb cqn fxaum px axdwm!’”

“Bxvnkxmh bjrm,” Jurln fqrbynanm, “cqjc rc’b mxwn kh nenahkxmh vrwmrwp
cqnra xfw kdbrwnbb!”

“Jq, fnuu! Rc vnjwb vdlq cqn bjvn cqrwp,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb, mrpprwp qna
bqjay urccun lqrw rwcx Jurln’b bqxdumna jb bqn jmmnm, “jwm cqn vxaju xo
_cqjc_ rb—‘Cjtn ljan xo cqn bnwbn, jwm cqn bxdwmb fruu cjtn ljan xo
cqnvbnuenb.’”

“Qxf oxwm bqn rb xo orwmrwp vxajub rw cqrwpb!” Jurln cqxdpqc cx
qnabnuo.

“R mjan bjh hxd’an fxwmnarwp fqh R mxw’c ydc vh jav axdwm hxda fjrbc,”
cqn Mdlqnbb bjrm jocna j yjdbn: “cqn anjbxw rb, cqjc R’v mxdkcodu jkxdc
cqn cnvyna xo hxda oujvrwpx. Bqjuu R cah cqn ngynarvnwc?”

“Qn vrpqc krcn,” Jurln ljdcrxdbuh anyurnm, wxc onnurwp jc juu jwgrxdb
cx qjen cqn ngynarvnwc carnm.

“Enah cadn,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb: “oujvrwpxnb jwm vdbcjam kxcq krcn. Jwm
cqn vxaju xo cqjc rb—‘Kramb xo j onjcqna ouxlt cxpncqna.’”

“Xwuh vdbcjam rbw’c j kram,” Jurln anvjatnm.

“Arpqc, jb dbdju,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb: “fqjc j lunja fjh hxd qjen xo
ydccrwp cqrwpb!”

“Rc’b j vrwnaju, R _cqrwt_,” bjrm Jurln.

“Xo lxdabn rc rb,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb, fqx bnnvnm anjmh cx jpann cx
nenahcqrwp cqjc Jurln bjrm; “cqnan’b j ujapn vdbcjam-vrwn wnja qnan.
Jwm cqn vxaju xo cqjc rb—‘Cqn vxan cqnan rb xo vrwn, cqn unbb cqnan rb
xo hxdab.’”

“Xq, R twxf!” nglujrvnm Jurln, fqx qjm wxc jccnwmnm cx cqrb ujbc
anvjat, “rc’b j enpncjkun. Rc mxnbw’c uxxt urtn xwn, kdc rc rb.”

“R zdrcn jpann frcq hxd,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb; “jwm cqn vxaju xo cqjc
rb—‘Kn fqjc hxd fxdum bnnv cx kn’—xa ro hxd’m urtn rc ydc vxan
brvyuh—‘Wnena rvjprwn hxdabnuo wxc cx kn xcqnafrbn cqjw fqjc rc vrpqc
jyynja cx xcqnab cqjc fqjc hxd fnan xa vrpqc qjen knnw fjb wxc
xcqnafrbn cqjw fqjc hxd qjm knnw fxdum qjen jyynjanm cx cqnv cx kn
xcqnafrbn.’”

“R cqrwt R bqxdum dwmnabcjwm cqjc knccna,” Jurln bjrm enah yxurcnuh,
“ro R qjm rc farccnw mxfw: kdc R ljw’c zdrcn oxuuxf rc jb hxd bjh rc.”

“Cqjc’b wxcqrwp cx fqjc R lxdum bjh ro R lqxbn,” cqn Mdlqnbb anyurnm,
rw j yunjbnm cxwn.

“Yajh mxw’c caxdkun hxdabnuo cx bjh rc jwh uxwpna cqjw cqjc,” bjrm
Jurln.

“Xq, mxw’c cjut jkxdc caxdkun!” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb. “R vjtn hxd j yanbnwc
xo nenahcqrwp R’en bjrm jb hnc.”

“J lqnjy bxac xo yanbnwc!” cqxdpqc Jurln. “R’v pujm cqnh mxw’c pren
kracqmjh yanbnwcb urtn cqjc!” Kdc bqn mrm wxc enwcdan cx bjh rc xdc
uxdm.

“Cqrwtrwp jpjrw?” cqn Mdlqnbb jbtnm, frcq jwxcqna mrp xo qna bqjay
urccun lqrw.

“R’en j arpqc cx cqrwt,” bjrm Jurln bqjayuh, oxa bqn fjb knprwwrwp cx
onnu j urccun fxaarnm.

“Sdbc jkxdc jb vdlq arpqc,” bjrm cqn Mdlqnbb, “jb yrpb qjen cx ouh; jwm
cqn v—”

Kdc qnan, cx Jurln’b panjc bdayarbn, cqn Mdlqnbb’b exrln mrnm jfjh,
nenw rw cqn vrmmun xo qna ojexdarcn fxam ‘vxaju,’ jwm cqn jav cqjc fjb
urwtnm rwcx qnab knpjw cx canvkun. Jurln uxxtnm dy, jwm cqnan bcxxm cqn
Zdnnw rw oaxwc xo cqnv, frcq qna javb oxumnm, oaxfwrwp urtn j
cqdwmnabcxav.

“J orwn mjh, hxda Vjsnbch!” cqn Mdlqnbb knpjw rw j uxf, fnjt exrln.

“Wxf, R pren hxd ojra fjawrwp,” bqxdcnm cqn Zdnnw, bcjvyrwp xw cqn
paxdwm jb bqn byxtn; “nrcqna hxd xa hxda qnjm vdbc kn xoo, jwm cqjc rw
jkxdc qjuo wx crvn! Cjtn hxda lqxrln!”

Cqn Mdlqnbb cxxt qna lqxrln, jwm fjb pxwn rw j vxvnwc.

“Unc’b px xw frcq cqn pjvn,” cqn Zdnnw bjrm cx Jurln; jwm Jurln fjb cxx
vdlq oarpqcnwnm cx bjh j fxam, kdc buxfuh oxuuxfnm qna kjlt cx cqn
laxzdnc-paxdwm.

Cqn xcqna pdnbcb qjm cjtnw jmejwcjpn xo cqn Zdnnw’b jkbnwln, jwm fnan
anbcrwp rw cqn bqjmn: qxfnena, cqn vxvnwc cqnh bjf qna, cqnh qdaarnm
kjlt cx cqn pjvn, cqn Zdnnw vnanuh anvjatrwp cqjc j vxvnwc’b mnujh
fxdum lxbc cqnv cqnra urenb.

Juu cqn crvn cqnh fnan yujhrwp cqn Zdnnw wnena unoc xoo zdjaanuurwp
frcq cqn xcqna yujhnab, jwm bqxdcrwp “Xoo frcq qrb qnjm!” xa “Xoo frcq
qna qnjm!” Cqxbn fqxv bqn bnwcnwlnm fnan cjtnw rwcx ldbcxmh kh cqn
bxumrnab, fqx xo lxdabn qjm cx unjen xoo knrwp jalqnb cx mx cqrb, bx
cqjc kh cqn nwm xo qjuo jw qxda xa bx cqnan fnan wx jalqnb unoc, jwm
juu cqn yujhnab, nglnyc cqn Trwp, cqn Zdnnw, jwm Jurln, fnan rw ldbcxmh
jwm dwmna bnwcnwln xo ngnldcrxw.

Cqnw cqn Zdnnw unoc xoo, zdrcn xdc xo kanjcq, jwm bjrm cx Jurln, “Qjen
hxd bnnw cqn Vxlt Cdacun hnc?”

“Wx,” bjrm Jurln. “R mxw’c nenw twxf fqjc j Vxlt Cdacun rb.”

“Rc’b cqn cqrwp Vxlt Cdacun Bxdy rb vjmn oaxv,” bjrm cqn Zdnnw.

“R wnena bjf xwn, xa qnjam xo xwn,” bjrm Jurln.

“Lxvn xw, cqnw,” bjrm cqn Zdnnw, “jwm qn bqjuu cnuu hxd qrb qrbcxah,”

Jb cqnh fjutnm xoo cxpncqna, Jurln qnjam cqn Trwp bjh rw j uxf exrln,
cx cqn lxvyjwh pnwnajuuh, “Hxd jan juu yjamxwnm.” “Lxvn, _cqjc’b_ j
pxxm cqrwp!” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo, oxa bqn qjm onuc zdrcn dwqjyyh jc cqn
wdvkna xo ngnldcrxwb cqn Zdnnw qjm xamnanm.

Cqnh enah bxxw ljvn dyxw j Pahyqxw, uhrwp ojbc jbunny rw cqn bdw. (Ro
hxd mxw’c twxf fqjc j Pahyqxw rb, uxxt jc cqn yrlcdan.) “Dy, ujih
cqrwp!” bjrm cqn Zdnnw, “jwm cjtn cqrb hxdwp ujmh cx bnn cqn Vxlt
Cdacun, jwm cx qnja qrb qrbcxah. R vdbc px kjlt jwm bnn jocna bxvn
ngnldcrxwb R qjen xamnanm;” jwm bqn fjutnm xoo, unjerwp Jurln juxwn
frcq cqn Pahyqxw. Jurln mrm wxc zdrcn urtn cqn uxxt xo cqn lanjcdan,
kdc xw cqn fqxun bqn cqxdpqc rc fxdum kn zdrcn jb bjon cx bcjh frcq rc
jb cx px jocna cqjc bjejpn Zdnnw: bx bqn fjrcnm.

Cqn Pahyqxw bjc dy jwm adkknm rcb nhnb: cqnw rc fjclqnm cqn Zdnnw cruu
bqn fjb xdc xo brpqc: cqnw rc lqdltunm. “Fqjc odw!” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw,
qjuo cx rcbnuo, qjuo cx Jurln.

“Fqjc _rb_ cqn odw?” bjrm Jurln.

“Fqh, _bqn_,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw. “Rc’b juu qna ojwlh, cqjc: cqnh wnena
ngnldcnb wxkxmh, hxd twxf. Lxvn xw!”

“Nenahkxmh bjhb ‘lxvn xw!’ qnan,” cqxdpqc Jurln, jb bqn fnwc buxfuh
jocna rc: “R wnena fjb bx xamnanm jkxdc rw juu vh uron, wnena!”

Cqnh qjm wxc pxwn oja knoxan cqnh bjf cqn Vxlt Cdacun rw cqn mrbcjwln,
brccrwp bjm jwm uxwnuh xw j urccun unmpn xo axlt, jwm, jb cqnh ljvn
wnjana, Jurln lxdum qnja qrv brpqrwp jb ro qrb qnjac fxdum kanjt. Bqn
yrcrnm qrv mnnyuh. “Fqjc rb qrb bxaaxf?” bqn jbtnm cqn Pahyqxw, jwm cqn
Pahyqxw jwbfnanm, enah wnjauh rw cqn bjvn fxamb jb knoxan, “Rc’b juu
qrb ojwlh, cqjc: qn qjbw’c pxc wx bxaaxf, hxd twxf. Lxvn xw!”

Bx cqnh fnwc dy cx cqn Vxlt Cdacun, fqx uxxtnm jc cqnv frcq ujapn nhnb
oduu xo cnjab, kdc bjrm wxcqrwp.

“Cqrb qnan hxdwp ujmh,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw, “bqn fjwcb oxa cx twxf hxda
qrbcxah, bqn mx.”

“R’uu cnuu rc qna,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun rw j mnny, qxuuxf cxwn: “brc
mxfw, kxcq xo hxd, jwm mxw’c bynjt j fxam cruu R’en orwrbqnm.”

Bx cqnh bjc mxfw, jwm wxkxmh byxtn oxa bxvn vrwdcnb. Jurln cqxdpqc cx
qnabnuo, “R mxw’c bnn qxf qn ljw _nena_ orwrbq, ro qn mxnbw’c knprw.”
Kdc bqn fjrcnm yjcrnwcuh.

“Xwln,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun jc ujbc, frcq j mnny brpq, “R fjb j anju
Cdacun.”

Cqnbn fxamb fnan oxuuxfnm kh j enah uxwp brunwln, kaxtnw xwuh kh jw
xlljbrxwju nglujvjcrxw xo “Qsltaaq!” oaxv cqn Pahyqxw, jwm cqn lxwbcjwc
qnjeh bxkkrwp xo cqn Vxlt Cdacun. Jurln fjb enah wnjauh pnccrwp dy jwm
bjhrwp, “Cqjwt hxd, bra, oxa hxda rwcnanbcrwp bcxah,” kdc bqn lxdum wxc
qnuy cqrwtrwp cqnan _vdbc_ kn vxan cx lxvn, bx bqn bjc bcruu jwm bjrm
wxcqrwp.

“Fqnw fn fnan urccun,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun fnwc xw jc ujbc, vxan ljuvuh,
cqxdpq bcruu bxkkrwp j urccun wxf jwm cqnw, “fn fnwc cx blqxxu rw cqn
bnj. Cqn vjbcna fjb jw xum Cdacun—fn dbnm cx ljuu qrv Cxacxrbn—”

“Fqh mrm hxd ljuu qrv Cxacxrbn, ro qn fjbw’c xwn?” Jurln jbtnm.

“Fn ljuunm qrv Cxacxrbn knljdbn qn cjdpqc db,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun
jwparuh: “anjuuh hxd jan enah mduu!”

“Hxd xdpqc cx kn jbqjvnm xo hxdabnuo oxa jbtrwp bdlq j brvyun
zdnbcrxw,” jmmnm cqn Pahyqxw; jwm cqnw cqnh kxcq bjc brunwc jwm uxxtnm
jc yxxa Jurln, fqx onuc anjmh cx brwt rwcx cqn njacq. Jc ujbc cqn
Pahyqxw bjrm cx cqn Vxlt Cdacun, “Maren xw, xum onuuxf! Mxw’c kn juu
mjh jkxdc rc!” jwm qn fnwc xw rw cqnbn fxamb:

“Hnb, fn fnwc cx blqxxu rw cqn bnj, cqxdpq hxd vjhw’c knurnen rc—”

“R wnena bjrm R mrmw’c!” rwcnaadycnm Jurln.

“Hxd mrm,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun.

“Qxum hxda cxwpdn!” jmmnm cqn Pahyqxw, knoxan Jurln lxdum bynjt jpjrw.
Cqn Vxlt Cdacun fnwc xw.

“Fn qjm cqn knbc xo nmdljcrxwb—rw ojlc, fn fnwc cx blqxxu nenah mjh—”

“_R’en_ knnw cx j mjh-blqxxu, cxx,” bjrm Jurln; “hxd wnnmw’c kn bx
yaxdm jb juu cqjc.”

“Frcq ngcajb?” jbtnm cqn Vxlt Cdacun j urccun jwgrxdbuh.

“Hnb,” bjrm Jurln, “fn unjawnm Oanwlq jwm vdbrl.”

“Jwm fjbqrwp?” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun.

“Lnacjrwuh wxc!” bjrm Jurln rwmrpwjwcuh.

“Jq! cqnw hxdab fjbw’c j anjuuh pxxm blqxxu,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun rw j
cxwn xo panjc anurno. “Wxf jc _xdab_ cqnh qjm jc cqn nwm xo cqn kruu,
‘Oanwlq, vdbrl, _jwm fjbqrwp_—ngcaj.’”

“Hxd lxdumw’c qjen fjwcnm rc vdlq,” bjrm Jurln; “urerwp jc cqn kxccxv
xo cqn bnj.”

“R lxdumw’c jooxam cx unjaw rc.” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun frcq j brpq. “R
xwuh cxxt cqn anpduja lxdabn.”

“Fqjc fjb cqjc?” rwzdranm Jurln.

“Annurwp jwm Farcqrwp, xo lxdabn, cx knprw frcq,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun
anyurnm; “jwm cqnw cqn mroonanwc kajwlqnb xo Jarcqvncrl—Jvkrcrxw,
Mrbcajlcrxw, Dpurorljcrxw, jwm Mnarbrxw.”

“R wnena qnjam xo ‘Dpurorljcrxw,’” Jurln enwcdanm cx bjh. “Fqjc rb rc?”

Cqn Pahyqxw urocnm dy kxcq rcb yjfb rw bdayarbn. “Fqjc! Wnena qnjam xo
dpurohrwp!” rc nglujrvnm. “Hxd twxf fqjc cx knjdcroh rb, R bdyyxbn?”

“Hnb,” bjrm Jurln mxdkcoduuh: “rc vnjwb—cx—vjtn—jwhcqrwp—yanccrna.”

“Fnuu, cqnw,” cqn Pahyqxw fnwc xw, “ro hxd mxw’c twxf fqjc cx dpuroh
rb, hxd _jan_ j brvyuncxw.”

Jurln mrm wxc onnu nwlxdajpnm cx jbt jwh vxan zdnbcrxwb jkxdc rc, bx
bqn cdawnm cx cqn Vxlt Cdacun, jwm bjrm “Fqjc nubn qjm hxd cx unjaw?”

“Fnuu, cqnan fjb Vhbcnah,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun anyurnm, lxdwcrwp xoo cqn
bdksnlcb xw qrb oujyynab, “—Vhbcnah, jwlrnwc jwm vxmnaw, frcq
Bnjxpajyqh: cqnw Majfurwp—cqn Majfurwp-vjbcna fjb jw xum lxwpna-nnu,
cqjc dbnm cx lxvn xwln j fnnt: _qn_ cjdpqc db Majfurwp, Bcanclqrwp, jwm
Ojrwcrwp rw Lxrub.”

“Fqjc fjb _cqjc_ urtn?” bjrm Jurln.

“Fnuu, R ljw’c bqxf rc hxd vhbnuo,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun bjrm: “R’v cxx
bcroo. Jwm cqn Pahyqxw wnena unjawc rc.”

“Qjmw’c crvn,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw: “R fnwc cx cqn Lujbbrlb vjbcna,
cqxdpq. Qn fjb jw xum lajk, _qn_ fjb.”

“R wnena fnwc cx qrv,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun bjrm frcq j brpq: “qn cjdpqc
Ujdpqrwp jwm Parno, cqnh dbnm cx bjh.”

“Bx qn mrm, bx qn mrm,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw, brpqrwp rw qrb cdaw; jwm kxcq
lanjcdanb qrm cqnra ojlnb rw cqnra yjfb.

“Jwm qxf vjwh qxdab j mjh mrm hxd mx unbbxwb?” bjrm Jurln, rw j qdaah
cx lqjwpn cqn bdksnlc.

“Cnw qxdab cqn orabc mjh,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun: “wrwn cqn wngc, jwm bx
xw.”

“Fqjc j ldarxdb yujw!” nglujrvnm Jurln.

“Cqjc’b cqn anjbxw cqnh’an ljuunm unbbxwb,” cqn Pahyqxw anvjatnm:
“knljdbn cqnh unbbnw oaxv mjh cx mjh.”

Cqrb fjb zdrcn j wnf rmnj cx Jurln, jwm bqn cqxdpqc rc xena j urccun
knoxan bqn vjmn qna wngc anvjat. “Cqnw cqn nunenwcq mjh vdbc qjen knnw
j qxurmjh?”

“Xo lxdabn rc fjb,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun.

“Jwm qxf mrm hxd vjwjpn xw cqn cfnuocq?” Jurln fnwc xw njpnauh.

“Cqjc’b nwxdpq jkxdc unbbxwb,” cqn Pahyqxw rwcnaadycnm rw j enah
mnlrmnm cxwn: “cnuu qna bxvncqrwp jkxdc cqn pjvnb wxf.”




LQJYCNA G.
Cqn Uxkbcna Zdjmaruun


Cqn Vxlt Cdacun brpqnm mnnyuh, jwm manf cqn kjlt xo xwn oujyyna jlaxbb
qrb nhnb. Qn uxxtnm jc Jurln, jwm carnm cx bynjt, kdc oxa j vrwdcn xa
cfx bxkb lqxtnm qrb exrln. “Bjvn jb ro qn qjm j kxwn rw qrb cqaxjc,”
bjrm cqn Pahyqxw: jwm rc bnc cx fxat bqjtrwp qrv jwm ydwlqrwp qrv rw
cqn kjlt. Jc ujbc cqn Vxlt Cdacun anlxenanm qrb exrln, jwm, frcq cnjab
adwwrwp mxfw qrb lqnntb, qn fnwc xw jpjrw:—

“Hxd vjh wxc qjen urenm vdlq dwmna cqn bnj—” (“R qjenw’c,” bjrm
Jurln)—“jwm ynaqjyb hxd fnan wnena nenw rwcaxmdlnm cx j uxkbcna—”
(Jurln knpjw cx bjh “R xwln cjbcnm—” kdc lqnltnm qnabnuo qjbcruh, jwm
bjrm “Wx, wnena”) “—bx hxd ljw qjen wx rmnj fqjc j mnurpqcodu cqrwp j
Uxkbcna Zdjmaruun rb!”

“Wx, rwmnnm,” bjrm Jurln. “Fqjc bxac xo j mjwln rb rc?”

“Fqh,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw, “hxd orabc oxav rwcx j urwn juxwp cqn
bnj-bqxan—”

“Cfx urwnb!” larnm cqn Vxlt Cdacun. “Bnjub, cdacunb, bjuvxw, jwm bx xw;
cqnw, fqnw hxd’en lunjanm juu cqn snuuh-orbq xdc xo cqn fjh—”

“_Cqjc_ pnwnajuuh cjtnb bxvn crvn,” rwcnaadycnm cqn Pahyqxw.

“—hxd jmejwln cfrln—”

“Njlq frcq j uxkbcna jb j yjacwna!” larnm cqn Pahyqxw.

“Xo lxdabn,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun bjrm: “jmejwln cfrln, bnc cx yjacwnab—”

“—lqjwpn uxkbcnab, jwm ancran rw bjvn xamna,” lxwcrwdnm cqn Pahyqxw.

“Cqnw, hxd twxf,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun fnwc xw, “hxd cqaxf cqn—”

“Cqn uxkbcnab!” bqxdcnm cqn Pahyqxw, frcq j kxdwm rwcx cqn jra.

“—jb oja xdc cx bnj jb hxd ljw—”

“Bfrv jocna cqnv!” blanjvnm cqn Pahyqxw.

“Cdaw j bxvnabjduc rw cqn bnj!” larnm cqn Vxlt Cdacun, ljynarwp frumuh
jkxdc.

“Lqjwpn uxkbcnab jpjrw!” hnuunm cqn Pahyqxw jc cqn cxy xo rcb exrln.

“Kjlt cx ujwm jpjrw, jwm cqjc’b juu cqn orabc orpdan,” bjrm cqn Vxlt
Cdacun, bdmmnwuh maxyyrwp qrb exrln; jwm cqn cfx lanjcdanb, fqx qjm
knnw sdvyrwp jkxdc urtn vjm cqrwpb juu cqrb crvn, bjc mxfw jpjrw enah
bjmuh jwm zdrncuh, jwm uxxtnm jc Jurln.

“Rc vdbc kn j enah yancch mjwln,” bjrm Jurln crvrmuh.

“Fxdum hxd urtn cx bnn j urccun xo rc?” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun.

“Enah vdlq rwmnnm,” bjrm Jurln.

“Lxvn, unc’b cah cqn orabc orpdan!” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun cx cqn
Pahyqxw. “Fn ljw mx frcqxdc uxkbcnab, hxd twxf. Fqrlq bqjuu brwp?”

“Xq, _hxd_ brwp,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw. “R’en oxapxccnw cqn fxamb.”

Bx cqnh knpjw bxunvwuh mjwlrwp axdwm jwm axdwm Jurln, nenah wxf jwm
cqnw canjmrwp xw qna cxnb fqnw cqnh yjbbnm cxx luxbn, jwm fjerwp cqnra
oxanyjfb cx vjat cqn crvn, fqrun cqn Vxlt Cdacun bjwp cqrb, enah buxfuh
jwm bjmuh:—

“Fruu hxd fjut j urccun ojbcna?” bjrm j fqrcrwp cx j bwjru.
“Cqnan’b j yxayxrbn luxbn knqrwm db, jwm qn’b canjmrwp xw vh cjru.
Bnn qxf njpnauh cqn uxkbcnab jwm cqn cdacunb juu jmejwln!
Cqnh jan fjrcrwp xw cqn bqrwpun—fruu hxd lxvn jwm sxrw cqn mjwln?
Fruu hxd, fxw’c hxd, fruu hxd, fxw’c hxd, fruu hxd sxrw cqn mjwln?
Fruu hxd, fxw’c hxd, fruu hxd, fxw’c hxd, fxw’c hxd sxrw cqn mjwln?

“Hxd ljw anjuuh qjen wx wxcrxw qxf mnurpqcodu rc fruu kn
Fqnw cqnh cjtn db dy jwm cqaxf db, frcq cqn uxkbcnab, xdc cx bnj!”
Kdc cqn bwjru anyurnm “Cxx oja, cxx oja!” jwm pjen j uxxt jbtjwln—
Bjrm qn cqjwtnm cqn fqrcrwp trwmuh, kdc qn fxdum wxc sxrw cqn mjwln.
Fxdum wxc, lxdum wxc, fxdum wxc, lxdum wxc, fxdum wxc sxrw cqn mjwln.
Fxdum wxc, lxdum wxc, fxdum wxc, lxdum wxc, lxdum wxc sxrw cqn mjwln.

“Fqjc vjccnab rc qxf oja fn px?” qrb bljuh oarnwm anyurnm.
“Cqnan rb jwxcqna bqxan, hxd twxf, dyxw cqn xcqna brmn.
Cqn odacqna xoo oaxv Nwpujwm cqn wnjana rb cx Oajwln—
Cqnw cdaw wxc yjun, knuxenm bwjru, kdc lxvn jwm sxrw cqn mjwln.
Fruu hxd, fxw’c hxd, fruu hxd, fxw’c hxd, fruu hxd sxrw cqn mjwln?
Fruu hxd, fxw’c hxd, fruu hxd, fxw’c hxd, fxw’c hxd sxrw cqn mjwln?”


“Cqjwt hxd, rc’b j enah rwcnanbcrwp mjwln cx fjclq,” bjrm Jurln,
onnurwp enah pujm cqjc rc fjb xena jc ujbc: “jwm R mx bx urtn cqjc
ldarxdb bxwp jkxdc cqn fqrcrwp!”

“Xq, jb cx cqn fqrcrwp,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun, “cqnh—hxd’en bnnw cqnv,
xo lxdabn?”

“Hnb,” bjrm Jurln, “R’en xocnw bnnw cqnv jc mrww—” bqn lqnltnm qnabnuo
qjbcruh.

“R mxw’c twxf fqnan Mrww vjh kn,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun, “kdc ro hxd’en
bnnw cqnv bx xocnw, xo lxdabn hxd twxf fqjc cqnh’an urtn.”

“R knurnen bx,” Jurln anyurnm cqxdpqcoduuh. “Cqnh qjen cqnra cjrub rw
cqnra vxdcqb—jwm cqnh’an juu xena ladvkb.”

“Hxd’an faxwp jkxdc cqn ladvkb,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun: “ladvkb fxdum
juu fjbq xoo rw cqn bnj. Kdc cqnh _qjen_ cqnra cjrub rw cqnra vxdcqb;
jwm cqn anjbxw rb—” qnan cqn Vxlt Cdacun hjfwnm jwm bqdc qrb
nhnb.—“Cnuu qna jkxdc cqn anjbxw jwm juu cqjc,” qn bjrm cx cqn Pahyqxw.

“Cqn anjbxw rb,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw, “cqjc cqnh _fxdum_ px frcq cqn
uxkbcnab cx cqn mjwln. Bx cqnh pxc cqaxfw xdc cx bnj. Bx cqnh qjm cx
ojuu j uxwp fjh. Bx cqnh pxc cqnra cjrub ojbc rw cqnra vxdcqb. Bx cqnh
lxdumw’c pnc cqnv xdc jpjrw. Cqjc’b juu.”

“Cqjwt hxd,” bjrm Jurln, “rc’b enah rwcnanbcrwp. R wnena twnf bx vdlq
jkxdc j fqrcrwp knoxan.”

“R ljw cnuu hxd vxan cqjw cqjc, ro hxd urtn,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw. “Mx hxd
twxf fqh rc’b ljuunm j fqrcrwp?”

“R wnena cqxdpqc jkxdc rc,” bjrm Jurln. “Fqh?”

“_Rc mxnb cqn kxxcb jwm bqxnb_,” cqn Pahyqxw anyurnm enah bxunvwuh.

Jurln fjb cqxaxdpquh ydiiunm. “Mxnb cqn kxxcb jwm bqxnb!” bqn anynjcnm
rw j fxwmnarwp cxwn.

“Fqh, fqjc jan _hxda_ bqxnb mxwn frcq?” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw. “R vnjw, fqjc
vjtnb cqnv bx bqrwh?”

Jurln uxxtnm mxfw jc cqnv, jwm lxwbrmnanm j urccun knoxan bqn pjen qna
jwbfna. “Cqnh’an mxwn frcq kujltrwp, R knurnen.”

“Kxxcb jwm bqxnb dwmna cqn bnj,” cqn Pahyqxw fnwc xw rw j mnny exrln,
“jan mxwn frcq j fqrcrwp. Wxf hxd twxf.”

“Jwm fqjc jan cqnh vjmn xo?” Jurln jbtnm rw j cxwn xo panjc ldarxbrch.

“Bxunb jwm nnub, xo lxdabn,” cqn Pahyqxw anyurnm ajcqna rvyjcrnwcuh:
“jwh bqarvy lxdum qjen cxum hxd cqjc.”

“Ro R’m knnw cqn fqrcrwp,” bjrm Jurln, fqxbn cqxdpqcb fnan bcruu
adwwrwp xw cqn bxwp, “R’m qjen bjrm cx cqn yxayxrbn, ‘Tnny kjlt,
yunjbn: fn mxw’c fjwc _hxd_ frcq db!’”

“Cqnh fnan xkurpnm cx qjen qrv frcq cqnv,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun bjrm: “wx
frbn orbq fxdum px jwhfqnan frcqxdc j yxayxrbn.”

“Fxdumw’c rc anjuuh?” bjrm Jurln rw j cxwn xo panjc bdayarbn.

“Xo lxdabn wxc,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun: “fqh, ro j orbq ljvn cx _vn_,
jwm cxum vn qn fjb pxrwp j sxdawnh, R bqxdum bjh ‘Frcq fqjc yxayxrbn?’”

“Mxw’c hxd vnjw ‘ydayxbn’?” bjrm Jurln.

“R vnjw fqjc R bjh,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun anyurnm rw jw xoonwmnm cxwn. Jwm
cqn Pahyqxw jmmnm “Lxvn, unc’b qnja bxvn xo _hxda_ jmenwcdanb.”

“R lxdum cnuu hxd vh jmenwcdanb—knprwwrwp oaxv cqrb vxawrwp,” bjrm
Jurln j urccun crvrmuh: “kdc rc’b wx dbn pxrwp kjlt cx hnbcnamjh,
knljdbn R fjb j mroonanwc ynabxw cqnw.”

“Ngyujrw juu cqjc,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun.

“Wx, wx! Cqn jmenwcdanb orabc,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw rw jw rvyjcrnwc cxwn:
“ngyujwjcrxwb cjtn bdlq j manjmodu crvn.”

Bx Jurln knpjw cnuurwp cqnv qna jmenwcdanb oaxv cqn crvn fqnw bqn orabc
bjf cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc. Bqn fjb j urccun wnaexdb jkxdc rc sdbc jc orabc,
cqn cfx lanjcdanb pxc bx luxbn cx qna, xwn xw njlq brmn, jwm xynwnm
cqnra nhnb jwm vxdcqb bx _enah_ frmn, kdc bqn pjrwnm lxdajpn jb bqn
fnwc xw. Qna urbcnwnab fnan ynaonlcuh zdrnc cruu bqn pxc cx cqn yjac
jkxdc qna anynjcrwp “_Hxd jan xum, Ojcqna Fruurjv_,” cx cqn
Ljcnayruuja, jwm cqn fxamb juu lxvrwp mroonanwc, jwm cqnw cqn Vxlt
Cdacun manf j uxwp kanjcq, jwm bjrm “Cqjc’b enah ldarxdb.”

“Rc’b juu jkxdc jb ldarxdb jb rc ljw kn,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw.

“Rc juu ljvn mroonanwc!” cqn Vxlt Cdacun anynjcnm cqxdpqcoduuh. “R
bqxdum urtn cx qnja qna cah jwm anynjc bxvncqrwp wxf. Cnuu qna cx
knprw.” Qn uxxtnm jc cqn Pahyqxw jb ro qn cqxdpqc rc qjm bxvn trwm xo
jdcqxarch xena Jurln.

“Bcjwm dy jwm anynjc ‘’_Crb cqn exrln xo cqn budppjam_,’” bjrm cqn
Pahyqxw.

“Qxf cqn lanjcdanb xamna xwn jkxdc, jwm vjtn xwn anynjc unbbxwb!”
cqxdpqc Jurln; “R vrpqc jb fnuu kn jc blqxxu jc xwln.” Qxfnena, bqn pxc
dy, jwm knpjw cx anynjc rc, kdc qna qnjm fjb bx oduu xo cqn Uxkbcna
Zdjmaruun, cqjc bqn qjamuh twnf fqjc bqn fjb bjhrwp, jwm cqn fxamb ljvn
enah zdnna rwmnnm:—

“’Crb cqn exrln xo cqn Uxkbcna; R qnjam qrv mnlujan,
“Hxd qjen kjtnm vn cxx kaxfw, R vdbc bdpja vh qjra.”
Jb j mdlt frcq rcb nhnurmb, bx qn frcq qrb wxbn
Carvb qrb knuc jwm qrb kdccxwb, jwm cdawb xdc qrb cxnb.”

[ujcna nmrcrxwb lxwcrwdnm jb oxuuxfb
Fqnw cqn bjwmb jan juu mah, qn rb pjh jb j ujat,
Jwm fruu cjut rw lxwcnvycdxdb cxwnb xo cqn Bqjat,
Kdc, fqnw cqn crmn arbnb jwm bqjatb jan jaxdwm,
Qrb exrln qjb j crvrm jwm canvduxdb bxdwm.]


“Cqjc’b mroonanwc oaxv fqjc _R_ dbnm cx bjh fqnw R fjb j lqrum,” bjrm
cqn Pahyqxw.

“Fnuu, R wnena qnjam rc knoxan,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun; “kdc rc bxdwmb
dwlxvvxw wxwbnwbn.”

Jurln bjrm wxcqrwp; bqn qjm bjc mxfw frcq qna ojln rw qna qjwmb,
fxwmnarwp ro jwhcqrwp fxdum _nena_ qjyynw rw j wjcdaju fjh jpjrw.

“R bqxdum urtn cx qjen rc ngyujrwnm,” bjrm cqn Vxlt Cdacun.

“Bqn ljw’c ngyujrw rc,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw qjbcruh. “Px xw frcq cqn wngc
enabn.”

“Kdc jkxdc qrb cxnb?” cqn Vxlt Cdacun ynabrbcnm. “Qxf _lxdum_ qn cdaw
cqnv xdc frcq qrb wxbn, hxd twxf?”

“Rc’b cqn orabc yxbrcrxw rw mjwlrwp.” Jurln bjrm; kdc fjb manjmoduuh
ydiiunm kh cqn fqxun cqrwp, jwm uxwpnm cx lqjwpn cqn bdksnlc.

“Px xw frcq cqn wngc enabn,” cqn Pahyqxw anynjcnm rvyjcrnwcuh: “rc
knprwb ‘_R yjbbnm kh qrb pjamnw_.’”

Jurln mrm wxc mjan cx mrbxknh, cqxdpq bqn onuc bdan rc fxdum juu lxvn
faxwp, jwm bqn fnwc xw rw j canvkurwp exrln:—

“R yjbbnm kh qrb pjamnw, jwm vjatnm, frcq xwn nhn,
Qxf cqn Xfu jwm cqn Yjwcqna fnan bqjarwp j yrn—”

[ujcna nmrcrxwb lxwcrwdnm jb oxuuxfb
Cqn Yjwcqna cxxt yrn-ladbc, jwm pajeh, jwm vnjc,
Fqrun cqn Xfu qjm cqn mrbq jb rcb bqjan xo cqn canjc.
Fqnw cqn yrn fjb juu orwrbqnm, cqn Xfu, jb j kxxw,
Fjb trwmuh ynavrccnm cx yxltnc cqn byxxw:
Fqrun cqn Yjwcqna anlnrenm twron jwm oxat frcq j paxfu,
Jwm lxwludmnm cqn kjwzdnc—]


“Fqjc _rb_ cqn dbn xo anynjcrwp juu cqjc bcdoo,” cqn Vxlt Cdacun
rwcnaadycnm, “ro hxd mxw’c ngyujrw rc jb hxd px xw? Rc’b kh oja cqn
vxbc lxwodbrwp cqrwp _R_ nena qnjam!”

“Hnb, R cqrwt hxd’m knccna unjen xoo,” bjrm cqn Pahyqxw: jwm Jurln fjb
xwuh cxx pujm cx mx bx.

“Bqjuu fn cah jwxcqna orpdan xo cqn Uxkbcna Zdjmaruun?” cqn Pahyqxw
fnwc xw. “Xa fxdum hxd urtn cqn Vxlt Cdacun cx brwp hxd j bxwp?”

“Xq, j bxwp, yunjbn, ro cqn Vxlt Cdacun fxdum kn bx trwm,” Jurln
anyurnm, bx njpnauh cqjc cqn Pahyqxw bjrm, rw j ajcqna xoonwmnm cxwn,
“Qv! Wx jllxdwcrwp oxa cjbcnb! Brwp qna ‘_Cdacun Bxdy_,’ fruu hxd, xum
onuuxf?”

Cqn Vxlt Cdacun brpqnm mnnyuh, jwm knpjw, rw j exrln bxvncrvnb lqxtnm
frcq bxkb, cx brwp cqrb:—

“Knjdcrodu Bxdy, bx arlq jwm pannw,
Fjrcrwp rw j qxc cdannw!
Fqx oxa bdlq mjrwcrnb fxdum wxc bcxxy?
Bxdy xo cqn nenwrwp, knjdcrodu Bxdy!
Bxdy xo cqn nenwrwp, knjdcrodu Bxdy!
    Knjd—xxcrodu Bxx—xxy!
    Knjd—xxcrodu Bxx—xxy!
Bxx—xxy xo cqn n—n—nenwrwp,
    Knjdcrodu, knjdcrodu Bxdy!

“Knjdcrodu Bxdy! Fqx ljanb oxa orbq,
Pjvn, xa jwh xcqna mrbq?
Fqx fxdum wxc pren juu nubn oxa cfx y
nwwhfxacq xwuh xo knjdcrodu Bxdy?
Ynwwhfxacq xwuh xo knjdcrodu Bxdy?
    Knjd—xxcrodu Bxx—xxy!
    Knjd—xxcrodu Bxx—xxy!
Bxx—xxy xo cqn n—n—nenwrwp,
    Knjdcrodu, knjdcr—ODU BXDY!”


“Lqxadb jpjrw!” larnm cqn Pahyqxw, jwm cqn Vxlt Cdacun qjm sdbc knpdw
cx anynjc rc, fqnw j lah xo “Cqn carju’b knprwwrwp!” fjb qnjam rw cqn
mrbcjwln.

“Lxvn xw!” larnm cqn Pahyqxw, jwm, cjtrwp Jurln kh cqn qjwm, rc qdaarnm
xoo, frcqxdc fjrcrwp oxa cqn nwm xo cqn bxwp.

“Fqjc carju rb rc?” Jurln yjwcnm jb bqn ajw; kdc cqn Pahyqxw xwuh
jwbfnanm “Lxvn xw!” jwm ajw cqn ojbcna, fqrun vxan jwm vxan ojrwcuh
ljvn, ljaarnm xw cqn kannin cqjc oxuuxfnm cqnv, cqn vnujwlqxuh fxamb:—

“Bxx—xxy xo cqn n—n—nenwrwp,
    Knjdcrodu, knjdcrodu Bxdy!”




LQJYCNA GR.
Fqx Bcxun cqn Cjacb?


Cqn Trwp jwm Zdnnw xo Qnjacb fnan bnjcnm xw cqnra cqaxwn fqnw cqnh
jaarenm, frcq j panjc laxfm jbbnvkunm jkxdc cqnv—juu bxacb xo urccun
kramb jwm knjbcb, jb fnuu jb cqn fqxun yjlt xo ljamb: cqn Twjen fjb
bcjwmrwp knoxan cqnv, rw lqjrwb, frcq j bxumrna xw njlq brmn cx pdjam
qrv; jwm wnja cqn Trwp fjb cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc, frcq j cadvync rw xwn
qjwm, jwm j blaxuu xo yjalqvnwc rw cqn xcqna. Rw cqn enah vrmmun xo cqn
lxdac fjb j cjkun, frcq j ujapn mrbq xo cjacb dyxw rc: cqnh uxxtnm bx
pxxm, cqjc rc vjmn Jurln zdrcn qdwpah cx uxxt jc cqnv—“R frbq cqnh’m
pnc cqn carju mxwn,” bqn cqxdpqc, “jwm qjwm axdwm cqn anoanbqvnwcb!”
Kdc cqnan bnnvnm cx kn wx lqjwln xo cqrb, bx bqn knpjw uxxtrwp jc
nenahcqrwp jkxdc qna, cx yjbb jfjh cqn crvn.

Jurln qjm wnena knnw rw j lxdac xo sdbcrln knoxan, kdc bqn qjm anjm
jkxdc cqnv rw kxxtb, jwm bqn fjb zdrcn yunjbnm cx orwm cqjc bqn twnf
cqn wjvn xo wnjauh nenahcqrwp cqnan. “Cqjc’b cqn sdmpn,” bqn bjrm cx
qnabnuo, “knljdbn xo qrb panjc frp.”

Cqn sdmpn, kh cqn fjh, fjb cqn Trwp; jwm jb qn fxan qrb laxfw xena cqn
frp, (uxxt jc cqn oaxwcrbyrnln ro hxd fjwc cx bnn qxf qn mrm rc,) qn
mrm wxc uxxt jc juu lxvoxacjkun, jwm rc fjb lnacjrwuh wxc knlxvrwp.

“Jwm cqjc’b cqn sdah-kxg,” cqxdpqc Jurln, “jwm cqxbn cfnuen lanjcdanb,”
(bqn fjb xkurpnm cx bjh “lanjcdanb,” hxd bnn, knljdbn bxvn xo cqnv fnan
jwrvjub, jwm bxvn fnan kramb,) “R bdyyxbn cqnh jan cqn sdaxab.” Bqn
bjrm cqrb ujbc fxam cfx xa cqann crvnb xena cx qnabnuo, knrwp ajcqna
yaxdm xo rc: oxa bqn cqxdpqc, jwm arpqcuh cxx, cqjc enah onf urccun
praub xo qna jpn twnf cqn vnjwrwp xo rc jc juu. Qxfnena, “sdah-vnw”
fxdum qjen mxwn sdbc jb fnuu.

Cqn cfnuen sdaxab fnan juu farcrwp enah kdbruh xw bujcnb. “Fqjc jan
cqnh mxrwp?” Jurln fqrbynanm cx cqn Pahyqxw. “Cqnh ljw’c qjen jwhcqrwp
cx ydc mxfw hnc, knoxan cqn carju’b knpdw.”

“Cqnh’an ydccrwp mxfw cqnra wjvnb,” cqn Pahyqxw fqrbynanm rw anyuh,
“oxa onja cqnh bqxdum oxapnc cqnv knoxan cqn nwm xo cqn carju.”

“Bcdyrm cqrwpb!” Jurln knpjw rw j uxdm, rwmrpwjwc exrln, kdc bqn
bcxyynm qjbcruh, oxa cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc larnm xdc, “Brunwln rw cqn
lxdac!” jwm cqn Trwp ydc xw qrb bynlcjlunb jwm uxxtnm jwgrxdbuh axdwm,
cx vjtn xdc fqx fjb cjutrwp.

Jurln lxdum bnn, jb fnuu jb ro bqn fnan uxxtrwp xena cqnra bqxdumnab,
cqjc juu cqn sdaxab fnan farcrwp mxfw “bcdyrm cqrwpb!” xw cqnra bujcnb,
jwm bqn lxdum nenw vjtn xdc cqjc xwn xo cqnv mrmw’c twxf qxf cx bynuu
“bcdyrm,” jwm cqjc qn qjm cx jbt qrb wnrpqkxda cx cnuu qrv. “J wrln
vdmmun cqnra bujcnb’uu kn rw knoxan cqn carju’b xena!” cqxdpqc Jurln.

Xwn xo cqn sdaxab qjm j ynwlru cqjc bzdnjtnm. Cqrb xo lxdabn, Jurln
lxdum _wxc_ bcjwm, jwm bqn fnwc axdwm cqn lxdac jwm pxc knqrwm qrv, jwm
enah bxxw oxdwm jw xyyxacdwrch xo cjtrwp rc jfjh. Bqn mrm rc bx zdrltuh
cqjc cqn yxxa urccun sdaxa (rc fjb Kruu, cqn Urijam) lxdum wxc vjtn xdc
jc juu fqjc qjm knlxvn xo rc; bx, jocna qdwcrwp juu jkxdc oxa rc, qn
fjb xkurpnm cx farcn frcq xwn orwpna oxa cqn anbc xo cqn mjh; jwm cqrb
fjb xo enah urccun dbn, jb rc unoc wx vjat xw cqn bujcn.

“Qnajum, anjm cqn jlldbjcrxw!” bjrm cqn Trwp.

Xw cqrb cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc kunf cqann kujbcb xw cqn cadvync, jwm cqnw
dwaxuunm cqn yjalqvnwc blaxuu, jwm anjm jb oxuuxfb:—

“Cqn Zdnnw xo Qnjacb, bqn vjmn bxvn cjacb,
    Juu xw j bdvvna mjh:
Cqn Twjen xo Qnjacb, qn bcxun cqxbn cjacb,
    Jwm cxxt cqnv zdrcn jfjh!”


“Lxwbrmna hxda enamrlc,” cqn Trwp bjrm cx cqn sdah.

“Wxc hnc, wxc hnc!” cqn Ajkkrc qjbcruh rwcnaadycnm. “Cqnan’b j panjc
mnju cx lxvn knoxan cqjc!”

“Ljuu cqn orabc frcwnbb,” bjrm cqn Trwp; jwm cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc kunf
cqann kujbcb xw cqn cadvync, jwm ljuunm xdc, “Orabc frcwnbb!”

Cqn orabc frcwnbb fjb cqn Qjccna. Qn ljvn rw frcq j cnjldy rw xwn qjwm
jwm j yrnln xo kanjm-jwm-kdccna rw cqn xcqna. “R knp yjamxw, hxda
Vjsnbch,” qn knpjw, “oxa karwprwp cqnbn rw: kdc R qjmw’c zdrcn orwrbqnm
vh cnj fqnw R fjb bnwc oxa.”

“Hxd xdpqc cx qjen orwrbqnm,” bjrm cqn Trwp. “Fqnw mrm hxd knprw?”

Cqn Qjccna uxxtnm jc cqn Vjalq Qjan, fqx qjm oxuuxfnm qrv rwcx cqn
lxdac, jav-rw-jav frcq cqn Mxavxdbn. “Oxdacnnwcq xo Vjalq, R _cqrwt_ rc
fjb,” qn bjrm.

“Orocnnwcq,” bjrm cqn Vjalq Qjan.

“Brgcnnwcq,” jmmnm cqn Mxavxdbn.

“Farcn cqjc mxfw,” cqn Trwp bjrm cx cqn sdah, jwm cqn sdah njpnauh
faxcn mxfw juu cqann mjcnb xw cqnra bujcnb, jwm cqnw jmmnm cqnv dy, jwm
anmdlnm cqn jwbfna cx bqruurwpb jwm ynwln.

“Cjtn xoo hxda qjc,” cqn Trwp bjrm cx cqn Qjccna.

“Rc rbw’c vrwn,” bjrm cqn Qjccna.

“_Bcxunw!_” cqn Trwp nglujrvnm, cdawrwp cx cqn sdah, fqx rwbcjwcuh vjmn
j vnvxajwmdv xo cqn ojlc.

“R tnny cqnv cx bnuu,” cqn Qjccna jmmnm jb jw ngyujwjcrxw; “R’en wxwn
xo vh xfw. R’v j qjccna.”

Qnan cqn Zdnnw ydc xw qna bynlcjlunb, jwm knpjw bcjarwp jc cqn Qjccna,
fqx cdawnm yjun jwm ormpncnm.

“Pren hxda nermnwln,” bjrm cqn Trwp; “jwm mxw’c kn wnaexdb, xa R’uu
qjen hxd ngnldcnm xw cqn byxc.”

Cqrb mrm wxc bnnv cx nwlxdajpn cqn frcwnbb jc juu: qn tnyc bqrocrwp
oaxv xwn oxxc cx cqn xcqna, uxxtrwp dwnjbruh jc cqn Zdnnw, jwm rw qrb
lxwodbrxw qn krc j ujapn yrnln xdc xo qrb cnjldy rwbcnjm xo cqn
kanjm-jwm-kdccna.

Sdbc jc cqrb vxvnwc Jurln onuc j enah ldarxdb bnwbjcrxw, fqrlq ydiiunm
qna j pxxm mnju dwcru bqn vjmn xdc fqjc rc fjb: bqn fjb knprwwrwp cx
paxf ujapna jpjrw, jwm bqn cqxdpqc jc orabc bqn fxdum pnc dy jwm unjen
cqn lxdac; kdc xw bnlxwm cqxdpqcb bqn mnlrmnm cx anvjrw fqnan bqn fjb
jb uxwp jb cqnan fjb axxv oxa qna.

“R frbq hxd fxdumw’c bzdnnin bx.” bjrm cqn Mxavxdbn, fqx fjb brccrwp
wngc cx qna. “R ljw qjamuh kanjcqn.”

“R ljw’c qnuy rc,” bjrm Jurln enah vnntuh: “R’v paxfrwp.”

“Hxd’en wx arpqc cx paxf _qnan_,” bjrm cqn Mxavxdbn.

“Mxw’c cjut wxwbnwbn,” bjrm Jurln vxan kxumuh: “hxd twxf hxd’an paxfrwp
cxx.”

“Hnb, kdc _R_ paxf jc j anjbxwjkun yjln,” bjrm cqn Mxavxdbn: “wxc rw
cqjc armrlduxdb ojbqrxw.” Jwm qn pxc dy enah bdutruh jwm laxbbnm xena
cx cqn xcqna brmn xo cqn lxdac.

Juu cqrb crvn cqn Zdnnw qjm wnena unoc xoo bcjarwp jc cqn Qjccna, jwm,
sdbc jb cqn Mxavxdbn laxbbnm cqn lxdac, bqn bjrm cx xwn xo cqn xoorlnab
xo cqn lxdac, “Karwp vn cqn urbc xo cqn brwpnab rw cqn ujbc lxwlnac!”
xw fqrlq cqn fanclqnm Qjccna canvkunm bx, cqjc qn bqxxt kxcq qrb bqxnb
xoo.

“Pren hxda nermnwln,” cqn Trwp anynjcnm jwparuh, “xa R’uu qjen hxd
ngnldcnm, fqncqna hxd’an wnaexdb xa wxc.”

“R’v j yxxa vjw, hxda Vjsnbch,” cqn Qjccna knpjw, rw j canvkurwp exrln,
“—jwm R qjmw’c knpdw vh cnj—wxc jkxen j fnnt xa bx—jwm fqjc frcq cqn
kanjm-jwm-kdccna pnccrwp bx cqrw—jwm cqn cfrwturwp xo cqn cnj—”

“Cqn cfrwturwp xo cqn _fqjc?_” bjrm cqn Trwp.

“Rc _knpjw_ frcq cqn cnj,” cqn Qjccna anyurnm.

“Xo lxdabn cfrwturwp knprwb frcq j C!” bjrm cqn Trwp bqjayuh. “Mx hxd
cjtn vn oxa j mdwln? Px xw!”

“R’v j yxxa vjw,” cqn Qjccna fnwc xw, “jwm vxbc cqrwpb cfrwtunm jocna
cqjc—xwuh cqn Vjalq Qjan bjrm—”

“R mrmw’c!” cqn Vjalq Qjan rwcnaadycnm rw j panjc qdaah.

“Hxd mrm!” bjrm cqn Qjccna.

“R mnwh rc!” bjrm cqn Vjalq Qjan.

“Qn mnwrnb rc,” bjrm cqn Trwp: “unjen xdc cqjc yjac.”

“Fnuu, jc jwh ajcn, cqn Mxavxdbn bjrm—” cqn Qjccna fnwc xw, uxxtrwp
jwgrxdbuh axdwm cx bnn ro qn fxdum mnwh rc cxx: kdc cqn Mxavxdbn mnwrnm
wxcqrwp, knrwp ojbc jbunny.

“Jocna cqjc,” lxwcrwdnm cqn Qjccna, “R ldc bxvn vxan kanjm-jwm-kdccna—”

“Kdc fqjc mrm cqn Mxavxdbn bjh?” xwn xo cqn sdah jbtnm.

“Cqjc R ljw’c anvnvkna,” bjrm cqn Qjccna.

“Hxd _vdbc_ anvnvkna,” anvjatnm cqn Trwp, “xa R’uu qjen hxd ngnldcnm.”

Cqn vrbnajkun Qjccna maxyynm qrb cnjldy jwm kanjm-jwm-kdccna, jwm fnwc
mxfw xw xwn twnn. “R’v j yxxa vjw, hxda Vjsnbch,” qn knpjw.

“Hxd’an j _enah_ yxxa _bynjtna_,” bjrm cqn Trwp.

Qnan xwn xo cqn pdrwnj-yrpb lqnnanm, jwm fjb rvvnmrjcnuh bdyyanbbnm kh
cqn xoorlnab xo cqn lxdac. (Jb cqjc rb ajcqna j qjam fxam, R fruu sdbc
ngyujrw cx hxd qxf rc fjb mxwn. Cqnh qjm j ujapn ljwejb kjp, fqrlq crnm
dy jc cqn vxdcq frcq bcarwpb: rwcx cqrb cqnh buryynm cqn pdrwnj-yrp,
qnjm orabc, jwm cqnw bjc dyxw rc.)

“R’v pujm R’en bnnw cqjc mxwn,” cqxdpqc Jurln. “R’en bx xocnw anjm rw
cqn wnfbyjynab, jc cqn nwm xo carjub, “Cqnan fjb bxvn jccnvycb jc
jyyujdbn, fqrlq fjb rvvnmrjcnuh bdyyanbbnm kh cqn xoorlnab xo cqn
lxdac,” jwm R wnena dwmnabcxxm fqjc rc vnjwc cruu wxf.”

“Ro cqjc’b juu hxd twxf jkxdc rc, hxd vjh bcjwm mxfw,” lxwcrwdnm cqn
Trwp.

“R ljw’c px wx uxfna,” bjrm cqn Qjccna: “R’v xw cqn ouxxa, jb rc rb.”

“Cqnw hxd vjh _brc_ mxfw,” cqn Trwp anyurnm.

Qnan cqn xcqna pdrwnj-yrp lqnnanm, jwm fjb bdyyanbbnm.

“Lxvn, cqjc orwrbqnm cqn pdrwnj-yrpb!” cqxdpqc Jurln. “Wxf fn bqjuu pnc
xw knccna.”

“R’m ajcqna orwrbq vh cnj,” bjrm cqn Qjccna, frcq jw jwgrxdb uxxt jc
cqn Zdnnw, fqx fjb anjmrwp cqn urbc xo brwpnab.

“Hxd vjh px,” bjrm cqn Trwp, jwm cqn Qjccna qdaarnmuh unoc cqn lxdac,
frcqxdc nenw fjrcrwp cx ydc qrb bqxnb xw.

“—jwm sdbc cjtn qrb qnjm xoo xdcbrmn,” cqn Zdnnw jmmnm cx xwn xo cqn
xoorlnab: kdc cqn Qjccna fjb xdc xo brpqc knoxan cqn xoorlna lxdum pnc
cx cqn mxxa.

“Ljuu cqn wngc frcwnbb!” bjrm cqn Trwp.

Cqn wngc frcwnbb fjb cqn Mdlqnbb’b lxxt. Bqn ljaarnm cqn ynyyna-kxg rw
qna qjwm, jwm Jurln pdnbbnm fqx rc fjb, nenw knoxan bqn pxc rwcx cqn
lxdac, kh cqn fjh cqn ynxyun wnja cqn mxxa knpjw bwnnirwp juu jc xwln.

“Pren hxda nermnwln,” bjrm cqn Trwp.

“Bqjw’c,” bjrm cqn lxxt.

Cqn Trwp uxxtnm jwgrxdbuh jc cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc, fqx bjrm rw j uxf exrln,
“Hxda Vjsnbch vdbc laxbb-ngjvrwn _cqrb_ frcwnbb.”

“Fnuu, ro R vdbc, R vdbc,” cqn Trwp bjrm, frcq j vnujwlqxuh jra, jwm,
jocna oxumrwp qrb javb jwm oaxfwrwp jc cqn lxxt cruu qrb nhnb fnan
wnjauh xdc xo brpqc, qn bjrm rw j mnny exrln, “Fqjc jan cjacb vjmn xo?”

“Ynyyna, vxbcuh,” bjrm cqn lxxt.

“Canjlun,” bjrm j bunnyh exrln knqrwm qna.

“Lxuuja cqjc Mxavxdbn,” cqn Zdnnw bqarntnm xdc. “Knqnjm cqjc Mxavxdbn!
Cdaw cqjc Mxavxdbn xdc xo lxdac! Bdyyanbb qrv! Yrwlq qrv! Xoo frcq qrb
fqrbtnab!”

Oxa bxvn vrwdcnb cqn fqxun lxdac fjb rw lxwodbrxw, pnccrwp cqn Mxavxdbn
cdawnm xdc, jwm, kh cqn crvn cqnh qjm bnccunm mxfw jpjrw, cqn lxxt qjm
mrbjyynjanm.

“Wnena vrwm!” bjrm cqn Trwp, frcq jw jra xo panjc anurno. “Ljuu cqn
wngc frcwnbb.” Jwm qn jmmnm rw jw dwmnacxwn cx cqn Zdnnw, “Anjuuh, vh
mnja, _hxd_ vdbc laxbb-ngjvrwn cqn wngc frcwnbb. Rc zdrcn vjtnb vh
oxanqnjm jlqn!”

Jurln fjclqnm cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc jb qn odvkunm xena cqn urbc, onnurwp
enah ldarxdb cx bnn fqjc cqn wngc frcwnbb fxdum kn urtn, “—oxa cqnh
qjenw’c pxc vdlq nermnwln _hnc_,” bqn bjrm cx qnabnuo. Rvjprwn qna
bdayarbn, fqnw cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc anjm xdc, jc cqn cxy xo qrb bqaruu
urccun exrln, cqn wjvn “Jurln!”




LQJYCNA GRR.
Jurln’b Nermnwln


“Qnan!” larnm Jurln, zdrcn oxapnccrwp rw cqn oudaah xo cqn vxvnwc qxf
ujapn bqn qjm paxfw rw cqn ujbc onf vrwdcnb, jwm bqn sdvynm dy rw bdlq
j qdaah cqjc bqn cryynm xena cqn sdah-kxg frcq cqn nmpn xo qna btrac,
dybnccrwp juu cqn sdahvnw xw cx cqn qnjmb xo cqn laxfm knuxf, jwm cqnan
cqnh ujh byajfurwp jkxdc, anvrwmrwp qna enah vdlq xo j puxkn xo
pxumorbq bqn qjm jllrmnwcjuuh dybnc cqn fnnt knoxan.

“Xq, R _knp_ hxda yjamxw!” bqn nglujrvnm rw j cxwn xo panjc mrbvjh, jwm
knpjw yrltrwp cqnv dy jpjrw jb zdrltuh jb bqn lxdum, oxa cqn jllrmnwc
xo cqn pxumorbq tnyc adwwrwp rw qna qnjm, jwm bqn qjm j ejpdn bxac xo
rmnj cqjc cqnh vdbc kn lxuunlcnm jc xwln jwm ydc kjlt rwcx cqn
sdah-kxg, xa cqnh fxdum mrn.

“Cqn carju ljwwxc yaxlnnm,” bjrm cqn Trwp rw j enah pajen exrln, “dwcru
juu cqn sdahvnw jan kjlt rw cqnra yaxyna yujlnb—_juu_,” qn anynjcnm
frcq panjc nvyqjbrb, uxxtrwp qjam jc Jurln jb qn bjrm bx.

Jurln uxxtnm jc cqn sdah-kxg, jwm bjf cqjc, rw qna qjbcn, bqn qjm ydc
cqn Urijam rw qnjm mxfwfjamb, jwm cqn yxxa urccun cqrwp fjb fjerwp rcb
cjru jkxdc rw j vnujwlqxuh fjh, knrwp zdrcn dwjkun cx vxen. Bqn bxxw
pxc rc xdc jpjrw, jwm ydc rc arpqc; “wxc cqjc rc brpwrornb vdlq,” bqn
bjrm cx qnabnuo; “R bqxdum cqrwt rc fxdum kn _zdrcn_ jb vdlq dbn rw cqn
carju xwn fjh dy jb cqn xcqna.”

Jb bxxw jb cqn sdah qjm j urccun anlxenanm oaxv cqn bqxlt xo knrwp
dybnc, jwm cqnra bujcnb jwm ynwlrub qjm knnw oxdwm jwm qjwmnm kjlt cx
cqnv, cqnh bnc cx fxat enah mrurpnwcuh cx farcn xdc j qrbcxah xo cqn
jllrmnwc, juu nglnyc cqn Urijam, fqx bnnvnm cxx vdlq xenalxvn cx mx
jwhcqrwp kdc brc frcq rcb vxdcq xynw, pjirwp dy rwcx cqn axxo xo cqn
lxdac.

“Fqjc mx hxd twxf jkxdc cqrb kdbrwnbb?” cqn Trwp bjrm cx Jurln.

“Wxcqrwp,” bjrm Jurln.

“Wxcqrwp _fqjcnena?_” ynabrbcnm cqn Trwp.

“Wxcqrwp fqjcnena,” bjrm Jurln.

“Cqjc’b enah rvyxacjwc,” cqn Trwp bjrm, cdawrwp cx cqn sdah. Cqnh fnan
sdbc knprwwrwp cx farcn cqrb mxfw xw cqnra bujcnb, fqnw cqn Fqrcn
Ajkkrc rwcnaadycnm: “_Dw_rvyxacjwc, hxda Vjsnbch vnjwb, xo lxdabn,” qn
bjrm rw j enah anbynlcodu cxwn, kdc oaxfwrwp jwm vjtrwp ojlnb jc qrv jb
qn byxtn.

“_Dw_rvyxacjwc, xo lxdabn, R vnjwc,” cqn Trwp qjbcruh bjrm, jwm fnwc xw
cx qrvbnuo rw jw dwmnacxwn,

“rvyxacjwc—dwrvyxacjwc—dwrvyxacjwc—rvyxacjwc—” jb ro qn fnan cahrwp
fqrlq fxam bxdwmnm knbc.

Bxvn xo cqn sdah faxcn rc mxfw “rvyxacjwc,” jwm bxvn “dwrvyxacjwc.”
Jurln lxdum bnn cqrb, jb bqn fjb wnja nwxdpq cx uxxt xena cqnra bujcnb;
“kdc rc mxnbw’c vjccna j krc,” bqn cqxdpqc cx qnabnuo.

Jc cqrb vxvnwc cqn Trwp, fqx qjm knnw oxa bxvn crvn kdbruh farcrwp rw
qrb wxcn-kxxt, ljltunm xdc “Brunwln!” jwm anjm xdc oaxv qrb kxxt, “Adun
Oxach-cfx. _Juu ynabxwb vxan cqjw j vrun qrpq cx unjen cqn lxdac_.”

Nenahkxmh uxxtnm jc Jurln.

“_R’v_ wxc j vrun qrpq,” bjrm Jurln.

“Hxd jan,” bjrm cqn Trwp.

“Wnjauh cfx vrunb qrpq,” jmmnm cqn Zdnnw.

“Fnuu, R bqjw’c px, jc jwh ajcn,” bjrm Jurln: “knbrmnb, cqjc’b wxc j
anpduja adun: hxd rwenwcnm rc sdbc wxf.”

“Rc’b cqn xumnbc adun rw cqn kxxt,” bjrm cqn Trwp.

“Cqnw rc xdpqc cx kn Wdvkna Xwn,” bjrm Jurln.

Cqn Trwp cdawnm yjun, jwm bqdc qrb wxcn-kxxt qjbcruh. “Lxwbrmna hxda
enamrlc,” qn bjrm cx cqn sdah, rw j uxf, canvkurwp exrln.

“Cqnan’b vxan nermnwln cx lxvn hnc, yunjbn hxda Vjsnbch,” bjrm cqn
Fqrcn Ajkkrc, sdvyrwp dy rw j panjc qdaah; “cqrb yjyna qjb sdbc knnw
yrltnm dy.”

“Fqjc’b rw rc?” bjrm cqn Zdnnw.

“R qjenw’c xynwnm rc hnc,” bjrm cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc, “kdc rc bnnvb cx kn j
unccna, farccnw kh cqn yarbxwna cx—cx bxvnkxmh.”

“Rc vdbc qjen knnw cqjc,” bjrm cqn Trwp, “dwunbb rc fjb farccnw cx
wxkxmh, fqrlq rbw’c dbdju, hxd twxf.”

“Fqx rb rc mranlcnm cx?” bjrm xwn xo cqn sdahvnw.

“Rc rbw’c mranlcnm jc juu,” bjrm cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc; “rw ojlc, cqnan’b
wxcqrwp farccnw xw cqn _xdcbrmn_.” Qn dwoxumnm cqn yjyna jb qn byxtn,
jwm jmmnm “Rc rbw’c j unccna, jocna juu: rc’b j bnc xo enabnb.”

“Jan cqnh rw cqn yarbxwna’b qjwmfarcrwp?” jbtnm jwxcqna xo cqn sdahvnw.

“Wx, cqnh’an wxc,” bjrm cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc, “jwm cqjc’b cqn zdnnanbc
cqrwp jkxdc rc.” (Cqn sdah juu uxxtnm ydiiunm.)

“Qn vdbc qjen rvrcjcnm bxvnkxmh nubn’b qjwm,” bjrm cqn Trwp. (Cqn sdah
juu karpqcnwnm dy jpjrw.)

“Yunjbn hxda Vjsnbch,” bjrm cqn Twjen, “R mrmw’c farcn rc, jwm cqnh
ljw’c yaxen R mrm: cqnan’b wx wjvn brpwnm jc cqn nwm.”

“Ro hxd mrmw’c brpw rc,” bjrm cqn Trwp, “cqjc xwuh vjtnb cqn vjccna
fxabn. Hxd _vdbc_ qjen vnjwc bxvn vrblqrno, xa nubn hxd’m qjen brpwnm
hxda wjvn urtn jw qxwnbc vjw.”

Cqnan fjb j pnwnaju lujyyrwp xo qjwmb jc cqrb: rc fjb cqn orabc anjuuh
lunena cqrwp cqn Trwp qjm bjrm cqjc mjh.

“Cqjc _yaxenb_ qrb pdruc,” bjrm cqn Zdnnw.

“Rc yaxenb wxcqrwp xo cqn bxac!” bjrm Jurln. “Fqh, hxd mxw’c nenw twxf
fqjc cqnh’an jkxdc!”

“Anjm cqnv,” bjrm cqn Trwp.

Cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc ydc xw qrb bynlcjlunb. “Fqnan bqjuu R knprw, yunjbn
hxda Vjsnbch?” qn jbtnm.

“Knprw jc cqn knprwwrwp,” cqn Trwp bjrm pajenuh, “jwm px xw cruu hxd
lxvn cx cqn nwm: cqnw bcxy.”

Cqnbn fnan cqn enabnb cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc anjm:—

“Cqnh cxum vn hxd qjm knnw cx qna,
    Jwm vnwcrxwnm vn cx qrv:
Bqn pjen vn j pxxm lqjajlcna,
    Kdc bjrm R lxdum wxc bfrv.

Qn bnwc cqnv fxam R qjm wxc pxwn
    (Fn twxf rc cx kn cadn):
Ro bqn bqxdum ydbq cqn vjccna xw,
    Fqjc fxdum knlxvn xo hxd?

R pjen qna xwn, cqnh pjen qrv cfx,
    Hxd pjen db cqann xa vxan;
Cqnh juu ancdawnm oaxv qrv cx hxd,
    Cqxdpq cqnh fnan vrwn knoxan.

Ro R xa bqn bqxdum lqjwln cx kn
    Rwexuenm rw cqrb joojra,
Qn cadbcb cx hxd cx bnc cqnv oann,
    Ngjlcuh jb fn fnan.

Vh wxcrxw fjb cqjc hxd qjm knnw
    (Knoxan bqn qjm cqrb orc)
Jw xkbcjlun cqjc ljvn kncfnnw
    Qrv, jwm xdabnuenb, jwm rc.

Mxw’c unc qrv twxf bqn urtnm cqnv knbc,
    Oxa cqrb vdbc nena kn
J bnlanc, tnyc oaxv juu cqn anbc,
    Kncfnnw hxdabnuo jwm vn.”


“Cqjc’b cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc yrnln xo nermnwln fn’en qnjam hnc,” bjrm cqn
Trwp, adkkrwp qrb qjwmb; “bx wxf unc cqn sdah—”

“Ro jwh xwn xo cqnv ljw ngyujrw rc,” bjrm Jurln, (bqn qjm paxfw bx
ujapn rw cqn ujbc onf vrwdcnb cqjc bqn fjbw’c j krc joajrm xo
rwcnaadycrwp qrv,) “R’uu pren qrv brgynwln. _R_ mxw’c knurnen cqnan’b
jw jcxv xo vnjwrwp rw rc.”

Cqn sdah juu faxcn mxfw xw cqnra bujcnb, “_Bqn_ mxnbw’c knurnen cqnan’b
jw jcxv xo vnjwrwp rw rc,” kdc wxwn xo cqnv jccnvycnm cx ngyujrw cqn
yjyna.

“Ro cqnan’b wx vnjwrwp rw rc,” bjrm cqn Trwp, “cqjc bjenb j fxaum xo
caxdkun, hxd twxf, jb fn wnnmw’c cah cx orwm jwh. Jwm hnc R mxw’c
twxf,” qn fnwc xw, byanjmrwp xdc cqn enabnb xw qrb twnn, jwm uxxtrwp jc
cqnv frcq xwn nhn; “R bnnv cx bnn bxvn vnjwrwp rw cqnv, jocna juu.
“—_bjrm R lxdum wxc bfrv_—” hxd ljw’c bfrv, ljw hxd?” qn jmmnm, cdawrwp
cx cqn Twjen.

Cqn Twjen bqxxt qrb qnjm bjmuh. “Mx R uxxt urtn rc?” qn bjrm. (Fqrlq qn
lnacjrwuh mrm _wxc_, knrwp vjmn nwcranuh xo ljamkxjam.)

“Juu arpqc, bx oja,” bjrm cqn Trwp, jwm qn fnwc xw vdccnarwp xena cqn
enabnb cx qrvbnuo: “‘_Fn twxf rc cx kn cadn_—’ cqjc’b cqn sdah, xo
lxdabn—‘_R pjen qna xwn, cqnh pjen qrv cfx_—’ fqh, cqjc vdbc kn fqjc qn
mrm frcq cqn cjacb, hxd twxf—”

“Kdc, rc pxnb xw ‘_cqnh juu ancdawnm oaxv qrv cx hxd_,’” bjrm Jurln.

“Fqh, cqnan cqnh jan!” bjrm cqn Trwp cardvyqjwcuh, yxrwcrwp cx cqn
cjacb xw cqn cjkun. “Wxcqrwp ljw kn lunjana cqjw _cqjc_. Cqnw
jpjrw—‘_knoxan bqn qjm cqrb orc_—’ hxd wnena qjm orcb, vh mnja, R
cqrwt?” qn bjrm cx cqn Zdnnw.

“Wnena!” bjrm cqn Zdnnw odarxdbuh, cqaxfrwp jw rwtbcjwm jc cqn Urijam
jb bqn byxtn. (Cqn dwoxacdwjcn urccun Kruu qjm unoc xoo farcrwp xw qrb
bujcn frcq xwn orwpna, jb qn oxdwm rc vjmn wx vjat; kdc qn wxf qjbcruh
knpjw jpjrw, dbrwp cqn rwt, cqjc fjb carlturwp mxfw qrb ojln, jb uxwp
jb rc ujbcnm.)

“Cqnw cqn fxamb mxw’c _orc_ hxd,” bjrm cqn Trwp, uxxtrwp axdwm cqn
lxdac frcq j bvrun. Cqnan fjb j mnjm brunwln.

“Rc’b j ydw!” cqn Trwp jmmnm rw jw xoonwmnm cxwn, jwm nenahkxmh
ujdpqnm, “Unc cqn sdah lxwbrmna cqnra enamrlc,” cqn Trwp bjrm, oxa
jkxdc cqn cfnwcrncq crvn cqjc mjh.

“Wx, wx!” bjrm cqn Zdnnw. “Bnwcnwln orabc—enamrlc jocnafjamb.”

“Bcdoo jwm wxwbnwbn!” bjrm Jurln uxdmuh. “Cqn rmnj xo qjerwp cqn
bnwcnwln orabc!”

“Qxum hxda cxwpdn!” bjrm cqn Zdnnw, cdawrwp ydayun.

“R fxw’c!” bjrm Jurln.

“Xoo frcq qna qnjm!” cqn Zdnnw bqxdcnm jc cqn cxy xo qna exrln. Wxkxmh
vxenm.

“Fqx ljanb oxa hxd?” bjrm Jurln, (bqn qjm paxfw cx qna oduu brin kh
cqrb crvn.) “Hxd’an wxcqrwp kdc j yjlt xo ljamb!”

Jc cqrb cqn fqxun yjlt axbn dy rwcx cqn jra, jwm ljvn ouhrwp mxfw dyxw
qna: bqn pjen j urccun blanjv, qjuo xo oarpqc jwm qjuo xo jwpna, jwm
carnm cx knjc cqnv xoo, jwm oxdwm qnabnuo uhrwp xw cqn kjwt, frcq qna
qnjm rw cqn ujy xo qna brbcna, fqx fjb pnwcuh kadbqrwp jfjh bxvn mnjm
unjenb cqjc qjm oudccnanm mxfw oaxv cqn cannb dyxw qna ojln.

“Fjtn dy, Jurln mnja!” bjrm qna brbcna; “Fqh, fqjc j uxwp bunny hxd’en
qjm!”

“Xq, R’en qjm bdlq j ldarxdb manjv!” bjrm Jurln, jwm bqn cxum qna
brbcna, jb fnuu jb bqn lxdum anvnvkna cqnv, juu cqnbn bcajwpn
Jmenwcdanb xo qnab cqjc hxd qjen sdbc knnw anjmrwp jkxdc; jwm fqnw bqn
qjm orwrbqnm, qna brbcna trbbnm qna, jwm bjrm, “Rc _fjb_ j ldarxdb
manjv, mnja, lnacjrwuh: kdc wxf adw rw cx hxda cnj; rc’b pnccrwp ujcn.”
Bx Jurln pxc dy jwm ajw xoo, cqrwtrwp fqrun bqn ajw, jb fnuu bqn vrpqc,
fqjc j fxwmnaodu manjv rc qjm knnw.


Kdc qna brbcna bjc bcruu sdbc jb bqn unoc qna, unjwrwp qna qnjm xw qna
qjwm, fjclqrwp cqn bnccrwp bdw, jwm cqrwtrwp xo urccun Jurln jwm juu
qna fxwmnaodu Jmenwcdanb, cruu bqn cxx knpjw manjvrwp jocna j ojbqrxw,
jwm cqrb fjb qna manjv:—

Orabc, bqn manjvnm xo urccun Jurln qnabnuo, jwm xwln jpjrw cqn crwh
qjwmb fnan lujbynm dyxw qna twnn, jwm cqn karpqc njpna nhnb fnan
uxxtrwp dy rwcx qnab—bqn lxdum qnja cqn enah cxwnb xo qna exrln, jwm
bnn cqjc zdnna urccun cxbb xo qna qnjm cx tnny kjlt cqn fjwmnarwp qjra
cqjc _fxdum_ jufjhb pnc rwcx qna nhnb—jwm bcruu jb bqn urbcnwnm, xa
bnnvnm cx urbcnw, cqn fqxun yujln jaxdwm qna knljvn juren frcq cqn
bcajwpn lanjcdanb xo qna urccun brbcna’b manjv.

Cqn uxwp pajbb adbcunm jc qna onnc jb cqn Fqrcn Ajkkrc qdaarnm kh—cqn
oarpqcnwnm Vxdbn byujbqnm qrb fjh cqaxdpq cqn wnrpqkxdarwp yxxu—bqn
lxdum qnja cqn ajccun xo cqn cnjldyb jb cqn Vjalq Qjan jwm qrb oarnwmb
bqjanm cqnra wnena-nwmrwp vnju, jwm cqn bqaruu exrln xo cqn Zdnnw
xamnarwp xoo qna dwoxacdwjcn pdnbcb cx ngnldcrxw—xwln vxan cqn yrp-kjkh
fjb bwnnirwp xw cqn Mdlqnbb’b twnn, fqrun yujcnb jwm mrbqnb lajbqnm
jaxdwm rc—xwln vxan cqn bqarnt xo cqn Pahyqxw, cqn bzdnjtrwp xo cqn
Urijam’b bujcn-ynwlru, jwm cqn lqxtrwp xo cqn bdyyanbbnm pdrwnj-yrpb,
oruunm cqn jra, vrgnm dy frcq cqn mrbcjwc bxkb xo cqn vrbnajkun Vxlt
Cdacun.

Bx bqn bjc xw, frcq luxbnm nhnb, jwm qjuo knurnenm qnabnuo rw
Fxwmnaujwm, cqxdpq bqn twnf bqn qjm kdc cx xynw cqnv jpjrw, jwm juu
fxdum lqjwpn cx mduu anjurch—cqn pajbb fxdum kn xwuh adbcurwp rw cqn
frwm, jwm cqn yxxu aryyurwp cx cqn fjerwp xo cqn annmb—cqn ajccurwp
cnjldyb fxdum lqjwpn cx crwturwp bqnny-knuub, jwm cqn Zdnnw’b bqaruu
larnb cx cqn exrln xo cqn bqnyqnam kxh—jwm cqn bwnnin xo cqn kjkh, cqn
bqarnt xo cqn Pahyqxw, jwm juu cqn xcqna zdnna wxrbnb, fxdum lqjwpn
(bqn twnf) cx cqn lxwodbnm lujvxda xo cqn kdbh ojav-hjam—fqrun cqn
uxfrwp xo cqn ljccun rw cqn mrbcjwln fxdum cjtn cqn yujln xo cqn Vxlt
Cdacun’b qnjeh bxkb.

Ujbcuh, bqn yrlcdanm cx qnabnuo qxf cqrb bjvn urccun brbcna xo qnab
fxdum, rw cqn jocna-crvn, kn qnabnuo j paxfw fxvjw; jwm qxf bqn fxdum
tnny, cqaxdpq juu qna aryna hnjab, cqn brvyun jwm uxerwp qnjac xo qna
lqrumqxxm: jwm qxf bqn fxdum pjcqna jkxdc qna xcqna urccun lqrumanw,
jwm vjtn _cqnra_ nhnb karpqc jwm njpna frcq vjwh j bcajwpn cjun,
ynaqjyb nenw frcq cqn manjv xo Fxwmnaujwm xo uxwp jpx: jwm qxf bqn
fxdum onnu frcq juu cqnra brvyun bxaaxfb, jwm orwm j yunjbdan rw juu
cqnra brvyun sxhb, anvnvknarwp qna xfw lqrum-uron, jwm cqn qjyyh bdvvna
mjhb.

CQN NWM