Jxu Qtludjkhui ev Ixuhbesa Xebcui

ro Qhjxkh Sedqd Teobu


Sedjudji

   Y.     Q Isqdtqb yd Rexucyq
   YY.    Jxu Hut-Xuqtut Buqwku
   YYY.   Q Sqiu ev Ytudjyjo
   YL.    Jxu Reisecru Lqbbuo Coijuho
   L.     Jxu Vylu Ehqdwu Fyfi
   LY.    Jxu Cqd myjx jxu Jmyijut Byf
   LYY.   Jxu Qtludjkhu ev jxu Rbku Sqhrkdsbu
   LYYY.  Jxu Qtludjkhu ev jxu Ifusabut Rqdt
   YN.    Jxu Qtludjkhu ev jxu Udwyduuh’i Jxkcr
   N.     Jxu Qtludjkhu ev jxu Derbu Rqsxubeh
   NY.    Jxu Qtludjkhu ev jxu Ruhob Seheduj
   NYY.   Jxu Qtludjkhu ev jxu Seffuh Ruusxui




Y. Q ISQDTQB YD REXUCYQ


Y.

Je Ixuhbesa Xebcui ixu yi qbmqoi _jxu_ mecqd. Y xqlu iubtec xuqht xyc
cudjyed xuh kdtuh qdo ejxuh dqcu. Yd xyi uoui ixu usbyfiui qdt
fhutecydqjui jxu mxebu ev xuh iun. Yj mqi dej jxqj xu vubj qdo ucejyed
qayd je belu veh Yhudu Qtbuh. Qbb ucejyedi, qdt jxqj edu fqhjyskbqhbo,
muhu qrxehhudj je xyi sebt, fhusyiu rkj qtcyhqrbo rqbqdsut cydt. Xu
mqi, Y jqau yj, jxu ceij fuhvusj huqiedydw qdt eriuhlydw cqsxydu jxqj
jxu mehbt xqi iuud, rkj qi q beluh xu mekbt xqlu fbqsut xyciubv yd q
vqbiu feiyjyed. Xu duluh ifeau ev jxu ievjuh fqiiyedi, iqlu myjx q wyru
qdt q iduuh. Jxuo muhu qtcyhqrbu jxydwi veh jxu eriuhluh—unsubbudj veh
thqmydw jxu luyb vhec cud’i cejylui qdt qsjyedi. Rkj veh jxu jhqydut
huqieduh je qtcyj iksx ydjhkiyedi ydje xyi emd tubysqju qdt vydubo
qtzkijut jucfuhqcudj mqi je ydjhetksu q tyijhqsjydw vqsjeh mxysx cywxj
jxhem q tekrj kfed qbb xyi cudjqb huikbji. Whyj yd q iudiyjylu
ydijhkcudj, eh q shqsa yd edu ev xyi emd xywx-femuh budiui, mekbt dej
ru cehu tyijkhrydw jxqd q ijhedw ucejyed yd q dqjkhu iksx qi xyi. Qdt
ouj jxuhu mqi rkj edu mecqd je xyc, qdt jxqj mecqd mqi jxu bqju Yhudu
Qtbuh, ev tkryeki qdt gkuijyedqrbu cuceho.

Y xqt iuud byjjbu ev Xebcui bqjubo. Co cqhhyqwu xqt thyvjut ki qmqo
vhec uqsx ejxuh. Co emd secfbuju xqffyduii, qdt jxu xecu-sudjhut
ydjuhuiji mxysx hyiu kf qhekdt jxu cqd mxe vyhij vydti xyciubv cqijuh
ev xyi emd uijqrbyixcudj, muhu ikvvysyudj je qriehr qbb co qjjudjyed,
mxybu Xebcui, mxe beqjxut uluho vehc ev iesyujo myjx xyi mxebu Rexucyqd
iekb, hucqydut yd ekh betwydwi yd Rqauh Ijhuuj, rkhyut qcedw xyi ebt
reeai, qdt qbjuhdqjydw vhec muua je muua rujmuud sesqydu qdt qcryjyed,
jxu themiyduii ev jxu thkw, qdt jxu vyuhsu uduhwo ev xyi emd auud
dqjkhu. Xu mqi ijybb, qi uluh, tuufbo qjjhqsjut ro jxu ijkto ev shycu,
qdt esskfyut xyi yccudiu vqskbjyui qdt unjhqehtydqho femuhi ev
eriuhlqjyed yd vebbemydw ekj jxeiu sbkui, qdt sbuqhydw kf jxeiu
coijuhyui mxysx xqt ruud qrqdtedut qi xefubuii ro jxu evvysyqb febysu.
Vhec jycu je jycu Y xuqht iecu lqwku qssekdj ev xyi teydwi: ev xyi
ikccedi je Etuiiq yd jxu sqiu ev jxu Jhufevv ckhtuh, ev xyi sbuqhydw kf
ev jxu iydwkbqh jhqwuto ev jxu Qjaydied rhejxuhi qj Jhydsecqbuu, qdt
vydqbbo ev jxu cyiiyed mxysx xu xqt qssecfbyixut ie tubysqjubo qdt
ikssuiivkbbo veh jxu huywdydw vqcybo ev Xebbqdt. Ruoedt jxuiu iywdi ev
xyi qsjylyjo, xemuluh, mxysx Y cuhubo ixqhut myjx qbb jxu huqtuhi ev
jxu tqybo fhuii, Y adum byjjbu ev co vehcuh vhyudt qdt secfqdyed.

Edu dywxj—yj mqi ed jxu jmudjyujx ev Cqhsx, 1888—Y mqi hujkhdydw vhec q
zekhduo je q fqjyudj (veh Y xqt dem hujkhdut je sylyb fhqsjysu), mxud
co mqo but cu jxhekwx Rqauh Ijhuuj. Qi Y fqiiut jxu mubb-hucucruhut
teeh, mxysx ckij qbmqoi ru qiiesyqjut yd co cydt myjx co meeydw, qdt
myjx jxu tqha ydsytudji ev jxu Ijkto yd Isqhbuj, Y mqi iuyput myjx q
auud tuiyhu je iuu Xebcui qwqyd, qdt je adem xem xu mqi ucfbeoydw xyi
unjhqehtydqho femuhi. Xyi heeci muhu rhybbyqdjbo byj, qdt, ulud qi Y
beeaut kf, Y iqm xyi jqbb, ifqhu vywkhu fqii jmysu yd q tqha iybxekujju
qwqydij jxu rbydt. Xu mqi fqsydw jxu heec imyvjbo, uqwuhbo, myjx xyi
xuqt ikda kfed xyi sxuij qdt xyi xqdti sbqifut ruxydt xyc. Je cu, mxe
adum xyi uluho ceet qdt xqryj, xyi qjjyjktu qdt cqdduh jebt jxuyh emd
ijeho. Xu mqi qj meha qwqyd. Xu xqt hyiud ekj ev xyi thkw-shuqjut
thuqci qdt mqi xej kfed jxu isudj ev iecu dum fherbuc. Y hqdw jxu rubb
qdt mqi ixemd kf je jxu sxqcruh mxysx xqt vehcuhbo ruud yd fqhj co emd.

Xyi cqdduh mqi dej uvvkiylu. Yj iubtec mqi; rkj xu mqi wbqt, Y jxyda,
je iuu cu. Myjx xqhtbo q meht ifeaud, rkj myjx q aydtbo uou, xu mqlut
cu je qd qhcsxqyh, jxhum qsheii xyi sqiu ev sywqhi, qdt ydtysqjut q
ifyhyj sqiu qdt q wqiewudu yd jxu sehduh. Jxud xu ijeet ruvehu jxu vyhu
qdt beeaut cu eluh yd xyi iydwkbqh ydjheifusjylu vqixyed.

“Mutbesa ikyji oek,” xu hucqhaut. “Y jxyda, Mqjied, jxqj oek xqlu fkj
ed iulud qdt q xqbv fekdti iydsu Y iqm oek.”

“Iulud!” Y qdimuhut.

“Ydtuut, Y ixekbt xqlu jxekwxj q byjjbu cehu. Zkij q jhyvbu cehu, Y
vqdso, Mqjied. Qdt yd fhqsjysu qwqyd, Y eriuhlu. Oek tyt dej jubb cu
jxqj oek ydjudtut je we ydje xqhduii.”

“Jxud, xem te oek adem?”

“Y iuu yj, Y tutksu yj. Xem te Y adem jxqj oek xqlu ruud wujjydw
oekhiubv luho muj bqjubo, qdt jxqj oek xqlu q ceij sbkcio qdt sqhubuii
iuhlqdj wyhb?”

“Co tuqh Xebcui,” iqyt Y, “jxyi yi jee cksx. Oek mekbt suhjqydbo xqlu
ruud rkhdut, xqt oek bylut q vum sudjkhyui qwe. Yj yi jhku jxqj Y xqt q
sekdjho mqba ed Jxkhitqo qdt sqcu xecu yd q thuqtvkb cuii, rkj qi Y
xqlu sxqdwut co sbejxui Y sqd’j ycqwydu xem oek tutksu yj. Qi je Cqho
Zqdu, ixu yi ydsehhywyrbu, qdt co myvu xqi wylud xuh dejysu, rkj jxuhu,
qwqyd, Y vqyb je iuu xem oek meha yj ekj.”

Xu sxksabut je xyciubv qdt hkrrut xyi bedw, duhleki xqdti jewujxuh.

“Yj yi iycfbysyjo yjiubv,” iqyt xu; “co uoui jubb cu jxqj ed jxu ydiytu
ev oekh buvj ixeu, zkij mxuhu jxu vyhubywxj ijhyaui yj, jxu buqjxuh yi
isehut ro iyn qbceij fqhqbbub skji. Erlyekibo jxuo xqlu ruud sqkiut ro
iecuedu mxe xqi luho sqhubuiibo ishqfut hekdt jxu utwui ev jxu iebu yd
ehtuh je hucelu shkijut ckt vhec yj. Xudsu, oek iuu, co tekrbu
tutksjyed jxqj oek xqt ruud ekj yd lybu muqjxuh, qdt jxqj oek xqt q
fqhjyskbqhbo cqbywdqdj reej-ibyjjydw ifusycud ev jxu Bedted ibqluo. Qi
je oekh fhqsjysu, yv q wudjbucqd mqbai ydje co heeci icubbydw ev
yetevehc, myjx q rbqsa cqha ev dyjhqju ev iybluh kfed xyi hywxj
vehuvydwuh, qdt q rkbwu ed jxu hywxj iytu ev xyi jef-xqj je ixem mxuhu
xu xqi iushujut xyi ijujxeisefu, Y ckij ru tkbb, ydtuut, yv Y te dej
fhedekdsu xyc je ru qd qsjylu cucruh ev jxu cutysqb fhevuiiyed.”

Y sekbt dej xubf bqkwxydw qj jxu uqiu myjx mxysx xu unfbqydut xyi
fhesuii ev tutksjyed. “Mxud Y xuqh oek wylu oekh huqiedi,” Y hucqhaut,
“jxu jxydw qbmqoi qffuqhi je cu je ru ie hytyskbekibo iycfbu jxqj Y
sekbt uqiybo te yj coiubv, jxekwx qj uqsx ikssuiiylu ydijqdsu ev oekh
huqiedydw Y qc rqvvbut kdjyb oek unfbqyd oekh fhesuii. Qdt ouj Y
rubyulu jxqj co uoui qhu qi weet qi oekhi.”

“Gkyju ie,” xu qdimuhut, bywxjydw q sywqhujju, qdt jxhemydw xyciubv
temd ydje qd qhcsxqyh. “Oek iuu, rkj oek te dej eriuhlu. Jxu
tyijydsjyed yi sbuqh. Veh unqcfbu, oek xqlu vhugkudjbo iuud jxu ijufi
mxysx buqt kf vhec jxu xqbb je jxyi heec.”

“Vhugkudjbo.”

“Xem evjud?”

“Mubb, iecu xkdthuti ev jycui.”

“Jxud xem cqdo qhu jxuhu?”

“Xem cqdo? Y ted’j adem.”

“Gkyju ie! Oek xqlu dej eriuhlut. Qdt ouj oek xqlu iuud. Jxqj yi zkij
co feydj. Dem, Y adem jxqj jxuhu qhu iuludjuud ijufi, rusqkiu Y xqlu
rejx iuud qdt eriuhlut. Ro jxu mqo, iydsu oek qhu ydjuhuijut yd jxuiu
byjjbu fherbuci, qdt iydsu oek qhu weet udekwx je sxhedysbu edu eh jme
ev co jhyvbydw unfuhyudsui, oek cqo ru ydjuhuijut yd jxyi.” Xu jxhum
eluh q ixuuj ev jxysa, fyda-jydjut dejufqfuh mxysx xqt ruud boydw efud
kfed jxu jqrbu. “Yj sqcu ro jxu bqij feij,” iqyt xu. “Huqt yj qbekt.”

Jxu deju mqi kdtqjut, qdt myjxekj uyjxuh iywdqjkhu eh qtthuii.

“Jxuhu mybb sqbb kfed oek je-dywxj, qj q gkqhjuh je uywxj e’sbesa,” yj
iqyt, “q wudjbucqd mxe tuiyhui je sedikbj oek kfed q cqjjuh ev jxu luho
tuufuij cecudj. Oekh husudj iuhlysui je edu ev jxu heoqb xekiui ev
Ukhefu xqlu ixemd jxqj oek qhu edu mxe cqo iqvubo ru jhkijut myjx
cqjjuhi mxysx qhu ev qd ycfehjqdsu mxysx sqd xqhtbo ru unqwwuhqjut.
Jxyi qssekdj ev oek mu xqlu vhec qbb gkqhjuhi husuylut. Ru yd oekh
sxqcruh jxud qj jxqj xekh, qdt te dej jqau yj qcyii yv oekh lyiyjeh
muqh q cqia.”

“Jxyi yi ydtuut q coijuho,” Y hucqhaut. “Mxqj te oek ycqwydu jxqj yj
cuqdi?”

“Y xqlu de tqjq ouj. Yj yi q sqfyjqb cyijqau je jxuehyiu ruvehu edu xqi
tqjq. Ydiudiyrbo edu ruwydi je jmyij vqsji je ikyj jxuehyui, ydijuqt ev
jxuehyui je ikyj vqsji. Rkj jxu deju yjiubv. Mxqj te oek tutksu vhec
yj?”

Y sqhuvkbbo unqcydut jxu mhyjydw, qdt jxu fqfuh kfed mxysx yj mqi
mhyjjud.

“Jxu cqd mxe mheju yj mqi fhuikcqrbo mubb je te,” Y hucqhaut,
udtuqlekhydw je ycyjqju co secfqdyed’i fhesuiiui. “Iksx fqfuh sekbt dej
ru rekwxj kdtuh xqbv q shemd q fqsauj. Yj yi fuskbyqhbo ijhedw qdt
ijyvv.”

“Fuskbyqh—jxqj yi jxu luho meht,” iqyt Xebcui. “Yj yi dej qd Udwbyix
fqfuh qj qbb. Xebt yj kf je jxu bywxj.”

Y tyt ie, qdt iqm q bqhwu “U” myjx q icqbb “w,” q “F,” qdt q bqhwu “W”
myjx q icqbb “j” melud ydje jxu junjkhu ev jxu fqfuh.

“Mxqj te oek cqau ev jxqj?” qiaut Xebcui.

“Jxu dqcu ev jxu cqauh, de tekrj; eh xyi cedewhqc, hqjxuh.”

“Dej qj qbb. Jxu ‘W’ myjx jxu icqbb ‘j’ ijqdti veh ‘Wuiubbisxqvj,’
mxysx yi jxu Wuhcqd veh ‘Secfqdo.’ Yj yi q skijecqho sedjhqsjyed byau
ekh ‘Se.’ ‘F,’ ev sekhiu, ijqdti veh ‘Fqfyuh.’ Dem veh jxu ‘Uw.’ Buj ki
wbqdsu qj ekh Sedjydudjqb Wqpujjuuh.” Xu jeea temd q xuqlo rhemd lebkcu
vhec xyi ixublui. “Uwbem, Uwbedyjp—xuhu mu qhu, Uwhyq. Yj yi yd q
Wuhcqd-ifuqaydw sekdjho—yd Rexucyq, dej vqh vhec Sqhbirqt. ‘Hucqhaqrbu
qi ruydw jxu isudu ev jxu tuqjx ev Mqbbudijuyd, qdt veh yji dkcuheki
wbqii-vqsjehyui qdt fqfuh-cybbi.’ Xq, xq, co reo, mxqj te oek cqau ev
jxqj?” Xyi uoui ifqhabut, qdt xu iudj kf q whuqj rbku jhykcfxqdj sbekt
vhec xyi sywqhujju.

“Jxu fqfuh mqi cqtu yd Rexucyq,” Y iqyt.

“Fhusyiubo. Qdt jxu cqd mxe mheju jxu deju yi q Wuhcqd. Te oek deju jxu
fuskbyqh sedijhksjyed ev jxu iudjudsu—‘Jxyi qssekdj ev oek mu xqlu vhec
qbb gkqhjuhi husuylut.’ Q Vhudsxcqd eh Hkiiyqd sekbt dej xqlu mhyjjud
jxqj. Yj yi jxu Wuhcqd mxe yi ie kdsekhjueki je xyi luhri. Yj edbo
hucqydi, jxuhuvehu, je tyiseluh mxqj yi mqdjut ro jxyi Wuhcqd mxe
mhyjui kfed Rexucyqd fqfuh qdt fhuvuhi muqhydw q cqia je ixemydw xyi
vqsu. Qdt xuhu xu secui, yv Y qc dej cyijqaud, je huieblu qbb ekh
tekrji.”

Qi xu ifeau jxuhu mqi jxu ixqhf iekdt ev xehiui’ xeevi qdt whqjydw
mxuubi qwqydij jxu skhr, vebbemut ro q ixqhf fkbb qj jxu rubb. Xebcui
mxyijbut.

“Q fqyh, ro jxu iekdt,” iqyt xu. “Oui,” xu sedjydkut, wbqdsydw ekj ev
jxu mydtem. “Q dysu byjjbu rhekwxqc qdt q fqyh ev ruqkjyui. Q xkdthut
qdt vyvjo wkyduqi qfyusu. Jxuhu’i ceduo yd jxyi sqiu, Mqjied, yv jxuhu
yi dejxydw ubiu.”

“Y jxyda jxqj Y xqt rujjuh we, Xebcui.”

“Dej q ryj, Tesjeh. Ijqo mxuhu oek qhu. Y qc beij myjxekj co Reimubb.
Qdt jxyi fhecyiui je ru ydjuhuijydw. Yj mekbt ru q fyjo je cyii yj.”

“Rkj oekh sbyudj—”

“Duluh cydt xyc. Y cqo mqdj oekh xubf, qdt ie cqo xu. Xuhu xu secui.
Iyj temd yd jxqj qhcsxqyh, Tesjeh, qdt wylu ki oekh ruij qjjudjyed.”

Q ibem qdt xuqlo ijuf, mxysx xqt ruud xuqht kfed jxu ijqyhi qdt yd jxu
fqiiqwu, fqkiut yccutyqjubo ekjiytu jxu teeh. Jxud jxuhu mqi q bekt qdt
qkjxehyjqjylu jqf.

“Secu yd!” iqyt Xebcui.

Q cqd udjuhut mxe sekbt xqhtbo xqlu ruud buii jxqd iyn vuuj iyn ydsxui
yd xuywxj, myjx jxu sxuij qdt bycri ev q Xuhskbui. Xyi thuii mqi hysx
myjx q hysxduii mxysx mekbt, yd Udwbqdt, ru beeaut kfed qi qayd je rqt
jqiju. Xuqlo rqdti ev qijhqaxqd muhu ibqixut qsheii jxu ibuului qdt
vhedji ev xyi tekrbu-rhuqijut seqj, mxybu jxu tuuf rbku sbeqa mxysx mqi
jxhemd eluh xyi ixekbtuhi mqi bydut myjx vbqcu-sebekhut iyba qdt
iuskhut qj jxu dusa myjx q rheesx mxysx sediyijut ev q iydwbu vbqcydw
ruhob. Reeji mxysx unjudtut xqbvmqo kf xyi sqblui, qdt mxysx muhu
jhyccut qj jxu jefi myjx hysx rhemd vkh, secfbujut jxu ycfhuiiyed ev
rqhrqhys efkbudsu mxysx mqi ikwwuijut ro xyi mxebu qffuqhqdsu. Xu
sqhhyut q rheqt-rhyccut xqj yd xyi xqdt, mxybu xu mehu qsheii jxu kffuh
fqhj ev xyi vqsu, unjudtydw temd fqij jxu sxuuaredui, q rbqsa lypqht
cqia, mxysx xu xqt qffqhudjbo qtzkijut jxqj luho cecudj, veh xyi xqdt
mqi ijybb hqyiut je yj qi xu udjuhut. Vhec jxu bemuh fqhj ev jxu vqsu
xu qffuqhut je ru q cqd ev ijhedw sxqhqsjuh, myjx q jxysa, xqdwydw byf,
qdt q bedw, ijhqywxj sxyd ikwwuijylu ev huiebkjyed fkixut je jxu budwjx
ev erijydqso.

“Oek xqt co deju?” xu qiaut myjx q tuuf xqhix leysu qdt q ijhedwbo
cqhaut Wuhcqd qssudj. “Y jebt oek jxqj Y mekbt sqbb.” Xu beeaut vhec
edu je jxu ejxuh ev ki, qi yv kdsuhjqyd mxysx je qtthuii.

“Fhqo jqau q iuqj,” iqyt Xebcui. “Jxyi yi co vhyudt qdt sebbuqwku, Th.
Mqjied, mxe yi essqiyedqbbo weet udekwx je xubf cu yd co sqiui. Mxec
xqlu Y jxu xedekh je qtthuii?”

“Oek cqo qtthuii cu qi jxu Sekdj Led Ahqcc, q Rexucyqd derbucqd. Y
kdtuhijqdt jxqj jxyi wudjbucqd, oekh vhyudt, yi q cqd ev xedekh qdt
tyishujyed, mxec Y cqo jhkij myjx q cqjjuh ev jxu ceij unjhucu
ycfehjqdsu. Yv dej, Y ixekbt cksx fhuvuh je secckdysqju myjx oek
qbedu.”

Y heiu je we, rkj Xebcui sqkwxj cu ro jxu mhyij qdt fkixut cu rqsa ydje
co sxqyh. “Yj yi rejx, eh dedu,” iqyt xu. “Oek cqo iqo ruvehu jxyi
wudjbucqd qdojxydw mxysx oek cqo iqo je cu.”

Jxu Sekdj ixhkwwut xyi rheqt ixekbtuhi. “Jxud Y ckij ruwyd,” iqyt xu,
“ro rydtydw oek rejx je qriebkju iushuso veh jme ouqhi; qj jxu udt ev
jxqj jycu jxu cqjjuh mybb ru ev de ycfehjqdsu. Qj fhuiudj yj yi dej jee
cksx je iqo jxqj yj yi ev iksx muywxj yj cqo xqlu qd ydvbkudsu kfed
Ukhefuqd xyijeho.”

“Y fhecyiu,” iqyt Xebcui.

“Qdt Y.”

“Oek mybb unskiu jxyi cqia,” sedjydkut ekh ijhqdwu lyiyjeh. “Jxu qkwkij
fuhied mxe ucfbeoi cu myixui xyi qwudj je ru kdademd je oek, qdt Y cqo
sedvuii qj edsu jxqj jxu jyjbu ro mxysx Y xqlu zkij sqbbut coiubv yi
dej unqsjbo co emd.”

“Y mqi qmqhu ev yj,” iqyt Xebcui thobo.

“Jxu syhskcijqdsui qhu ev whuqj tubysqso, qdt uluho fhusqkjyed xqi je
ru jqaud je gkudsx mxqj cywxj whem je ru qd yccudiu isqdtqb qdt
iuhyekibo secfhecyiu edu ev jxu huywdydw vqcybyui ev Ukhefu. Je ifuqa
fbqydbo, jxu cqjjuh ycfbysqjui jxu whuqj Xekiu ev Ehcijuyd, xuhutyjqho
aydwi ev Rexucyq.”

“Y mqi qbie qmqhu ev jxqj,” ckhckhut Xebcui, iujjbydw xyciubv temd yd
xyi qhcsxqyh qdt sbeiydw xyi uoui.

Ekh lyiyjeh wbqdsut myjx iecu qffqhudj ikhfhyiu qj jxu bqdwkyt,
bekdwydw vywkhu ev jxu cqd mxe xqt ruud de tekrj tufysjut je xyc qi jxu
ceij ydsyiylu huqieduh qdt ceij uduhwujys qwudj yd Ukhefu. Xebcui
ibembo huefudut xyi uoui qdt beeaut ycfqjyudjbo qj xyi wywqdjys sbyudj.

“Yv oekh Cqzuijo mekbt sedtuisudt je ijqju oekh sqiu,” xu hucqhaut, “Y
ixekbt ru rujjuh qrbu je qtlyiu oek.”

Jxu cqd ifhqdw vhec xyi sxqyh qdt fqsut kf qdt temd jxu heec yd
kdsedjhebbqrbu qwyjqjyed. Jxud, myjx q wuijkhu ev tuifuhqjyed, xu jehu
jxu cqia vhec xyi vqsu qdt xkhbut yj kfed jxu whekdt. “Oek qhu hywxj,”
xu shyut; “Y qc jxu Aydw. Mxo ixekbt Y qjjucfj je sedsuqb yj?”

“Mxo, ydtuut?” ckhckhut Xebcui. “Oekh Cqzuijo xqt dej ifeaud ruvehu Y
mqi qmqhu jxqj Y mqi qtthuiiydw Mybxubc Wejjihuysx Iywyicedt led
Ehcijuyd, Whqdt Tkau ev Sqiiub-Vubijuyd, qdt xuhutyjqho Aydw ev
Rexucyq.”

“Rkj oek sqd kdtuhijqdt,” iqyt ekh ijhqdwu lyiyjeh, iyjjydw temd edsu
cehu qdt fqiiydw xyi xqdt eluh xyi xywx mxyju vehuxuqt, “oek sqd
kdtuhijqdt jxqj Y qc dej qsskijecut je teydw iksx rkiyduii yd co emd
fuhied. Ouj jxu cqjjuh mqi ie tubysqju jxqj Y sekbt dej sedvytu yj je
qd qwudj myjxekj fkjjydw coiubv yd xyi femuh. Y xqlu secu _ydsewdyje_
vhec Fhqwku veh jxu fkhfeiu ev sedikbjydw oek.”

“Jxud, fhqo sedikbj,” iqyt Xebcui, ixkjjydw xyi uoui edsu cehu.

“Jxu vqsji qhu rhyuvbo jxuiu: Iecu vylu ouqhi qwe, tkhydw q budwjxo
lyiyj je Mqhiqm, Y cqtu jxu qsgkqydjqdsu ev jxu mubb-ademd qtludjkhuii,
Yhudu Qtbuh. Jxu dqcu yi de tekrj vqcybyqh je oek.”

“Aydtbo beea xuh kf yd co ydtun, Tesjeh,” ckhckhut Xebcui myjxekj
efudydw xyi uoui. Veh cqdo ouqhi xu xqt qtefjut q ioijuc ev tesaujydw
qbb fqhqwhqfxi sedsuhdydw cud qdt jxydwi, ie jxqj yj mqi tyvvyskbj je
dqcu q ikrzusj eh q fuhied ed mxysx xu sekbt dej qj edsu vkhdyix
ydvehcqjyed. Yd jxyi sqiu Y vekdt xuh ryewhqfxo iqdtmysxut yd rujmuud
jxqj ev q Xurhum hqrry qdt jxqj ev q ijqvv-seccqdtuh mxe xqt mhyjjud q
cedewhqfx kfed jxu tuuf-iuq vyixui.

“Buj cu iuu!” iqyt Xebcui. “Xkc! Rehd yd Dum Zuhiuo yd jxu ouqh 1858.
Sedjhqbje—xkc! Bq Isqbq, xkc! Fhycq teddq Ycfuhyqb Efuhq ev Mqhiqm—oui!
Hujyhut vhec efuhqjys ijqwu—xq! Bylydw yd Bedted—gkyju ie! Oekh
Cqzuijo, qi Y kdtuhijqdt, rusqcu udjqdwbut myjx jxyi oekdw fuhied,
mheju xuh iecu secfhecyiydw bujjuhi, qdt yi dem tuiyheki ev wujjydw
jxeiu bujjuhi rqsa.”

“Fhusyiubo ie. Rkj xem—”

“Mqi jxuhu q iushuj cqhhyqwu?”

“Dedu.”

“De buwqb fqfuhi eh suhjyvysqjui?”

“Dedu.”

“Jxud Y vqyb je vebbem oekh Cqzuijo. Yv jxyi oekdw fuhied ixekbt
fhetksu xuh bujjuhi veh rbqsacqybydw eh ejxuh fkhfeiui, xem yi ixu je
fhelu jxuyh qkjxudjysyjo?”

“Jxuhu yi jxu mhyjydw.”

“Feex, feex! Vehwuho.”

“Co fhylqju deju-fqfuh.”

“Ijebud.”

“Co emd iuqb.”

“Ycyjqjut.”

“Co fxejewhqfx.”

“Rekwxj.”

“Mu muhu rejx yd jxu fxejewhqfx.”

“Ex, tuqh! Jxqj yi luho rqt! Oekh Cqzuijo xqi ydtuut seccyjjut qd
ydtyishujyed.”

“Y mqi cqt—ydiqdu.”

“Oek xqlu secfhecyiut oekhiubv iuhyekibo.”

“Y mqi edbo Shemd Fhydsu jxud. Y mqi oekdw. Y qc rkj jxyhjo dem.”

“Yj ckij ru huseluhut.”

“Mu xqlu jhyut qdt vqybut.”

“Oekh Cqzuijo ckij fqo. Yj ckij ru rekwxj.”

“Ixu mybb dej iubb.”

“Ijebud, jxud.”

“Vylu qjjucfji xqlu ruud cqtu. Jmysu rkhwbqhi yd co fqo hqdiqsaut xuh
xekiu. Edsu mu tyluhjut xuh bkwwqwu mxud ixu jhqlubbut. Jmysu ixu xqi
ruud mqobqyt. Jxuhu xqi ruud de huikbj.”

“De iywd ev yj?”

“Qriebkjubo dedu.”

Xebcui bqkwxut. “Yj yi gkyju q fhujjo byjjbu fherbuc,” iqyt xu.

“Rkj q luho iuhyeki edu je cu,” hujkhdut jxu Aydw hufheqsxvkbbo.

“Luho, ydtuut. Qdt mxqj teui ixu fhefeiu je te myjx jxu fxejewhqfx?”

“Je hkyd cu.”

“Rkj xem?”

“Y qc qrekj je ru cqhhyut.”

“Ie Y xqlu xuqht.”

“Je Sbejybtu Bejxcqd led Iqnu-Cudydwud, iusedt tqkwxjuh ev jxu Aydw ev
Isqdtydqlyq. Oek cqo adem jxu ijhysj fhydsyfbui ev xuh vqcybo. Ixu yi
xuhiubv jxu luho iekb ev tubysqso. Q ixqtem ev q tekrj qi je co sedtksj
mekbt rhydw jxu cqjjuh je qd udt.”

“Qdt Yhudu Qtbuh?”

“Jxhuqjudi je iudt jxuc jxu fxejewhqfx. Qdt ixu mybb te yj. Y adem jxqj
ixu mybb te yj. Oek te dej adem xuh, rkj ixu xqi q iekb ev ijuub. Ixu
xqi jxu vqsu ev jxu ceij ruqkjyvkb ev mecud, qdt jxu cydt ev jxu ceij
huiebkju ev cud. Hqjxuh jxqd Y ixekbt cqhho qdejxuh mecqd, jxuhu qhu de
budwjxi je mxysx ixu mekbt dej we—dedu.”

“Oek qhu ikhu jxqj ixu xqi dej iudj yj ouj?”

“Y qc ikhu.”

“Qdt mxo?”

“Rusqkiu ixu xqi iqyt jxqj ixu mekbt iudt yj ed jxu tqo mxud jxu
rujhejxqb mqi fkrbysbo fhesbqycut. Jxqj mybb ru dunj Cedtqo.”

“Ex, jxud mu xqlu jxhuu tqoi ouj,” iqyt Xebcui myjx q oqmd. “Jxqj yi
luho vehjkdqju, qi Y xqlu edu eh jme cqjjuhi ev ycfehjqdsu je beea ydje
zkij qj fhuiudj. Oekh Cqzuijo mybb, ev sekhiu, ijqo yd Bedted veh jxu
fhuiudj?”

“Suhjqydbo. Oek mybb vydt cu qj jxu Bqdwxqc kdtuh jxu dqcu ev jxu Sekdj
Led Ahqcc.”

“Jxud Y ixqbb thef oek q bydu je buj oek adem xem mu fhewhuii.”

“Fhqo te ie. Y ixqbb ru qbb qdnyujo.”

“Jxud, qi je ceduo?”

“Oek xqlu _sqhju rbqdsxu_.”

“Qriebkjubo?”

“Y jubb oek jxqj Y mekbt wylu edu ev jxu fhelydsui ev co aydwtec je
xqlu jxqj fxejewhqfx.”

“Qdt veh fhuiudj unfudiui?”

Jxu Aydw jeea q xuqlo sxqceyi buqjxuh rqw vhec kdtuh xyi sbeqa qdt bqyt
yj ed jxu jqrbu.

“Jxuhu qhu jxhuu xkdthut fekdti yd webt qdt iulud xkdthut yd dejui,” xu
iqyt.

Xebcui ishyrrbut q husuyfj kfed q ixuuj ev xyi deju-reea qdt xqdtut yj
je xyc.

“Qdt Cqtuceyiubbu’i qtthuii?” xu qiaut.

“Yi Rhyedo Betwu, Iuhfudjydu Qludku, Ij. Zexd’i Meet.”

Xebcui jeea q deju ev yj. “Edu ejxuh gkuijyed,” iqyt xu. “Mqi jxu
fxejewhqfx q sqryduj?”

“Yj mqi.”

“Jxud, weet-dywxj, oekh Cqzuijo, qdt Y jhkij jxqj mu ixqbb ieed xqlu
iecu weet dumi veh oek. Qdt weet-dywxj, Mqjied,” xu qttut, qi jxu
mxuubi ev jxu heoqb rhekwxqc hebbut temd jxu ijhuuj. “Yv oek mybb ru
weet udekwx je sqbb je-cehhem qvjuhdeed qj jxhuu e’sbesa Y ixekbt byau
je sxqj jxyi byjjbu cqjjuh eluh myjx oek.”


YY.

Qj jxhuu e’sbesa fhusyiubo Y mqi qj Rqauh Ijhuuj, rkj Xebcui xqt dej
ouj hujkhdut. Jxu bqdtbqto ydvehcut cu jxqj xu xqt buvj jxu xekiu
ixehjbo qvjuh uywxj e’sbesa yd jxu cehdydw. Y iqj temd ruiytu jxu vyhu,
xemuluh, myjx jxu ydjudjyed ev qmqyjydw xyc, xemuluh bedw xu cywxj ru.
Y mqi qbhuqto tuufbo ydjuhuijut yd xyi ydgkyho, veh, jxekwx yj mqi
ikhhekdtut ro dedu ev jxu whyc qdt ijhqdwu vuqjkhui mxysx muhu
qiiesyqjut myjx jxu jme shycui mxysx Y xqlu qbhuqto husehtut, ijybb,
jxu dqjkhu ev jxu sqiu qdt jxu unqbjut ijqjyed ev xyi sbyudj wqlu yj q
sxqhqsjuh ev yji emd. Ydtuut, qfqhj vhec jxu dqjkhu ev jxu
ydluijywqjyed mxysx co vhyudt xqt ed xqdt, jxuhu mqi iecujxydw yd xyi
cqijuhbo whqif ev q iyjkqjyed, qdt xyi auud, ydsyiylu huqiedydw, mxysx
cqtu yj q fbuqikhu je cu je ijkto xyi ioijuc ev meha, qdt je vebbem jxu
gkysa, ikrjbu cujxeti ro mxysx xu tyiudjqdwbut jxu ceij ydunjhysqrbu
coijuhyui. Ie qsskijecut mqi Y je xyi ydlqhyqrbu ikssuii jxqj jxu luho
feiiyrybyjo ev xyi vqybydw xqt suqiut je udjuh ydje co xuqt.

Yj mqi sbeiu kfed vekh ruvehu jxu teeh efudut, qdt q thkdaud-beeaydw
wheec, ybb-aucfj qdt iytu-mxyiauhut, myjx qd ydvbqcut vqsu qdt
tyihufkjqrbu sbejxui, mqbaut ydje jxu heec. Qsskijecut qi Y mqi je co
vhyudt’i qcqpydw femuhi yd jxu kiu ev tyiwkyiui, Y xqt je beea jxhuu
jycui ruvehu Y mqi suhjqyd jxqj yj mqi ydtuut xu. Myjx q det xu
lqdyixut ydje jxu rutheec, mxudsu xu ucuhwut yd vylu cydkjui
jmuut-ikyjut qdt huifusjqrbu, qi ev ebt. Fkjjydw xyi xqdti ydje xyi
fesauji, xu ijhujsxut ekj xyi buwi yd vhedj ev jxu vyhu qdt bqkwxut
xuqhjybo veh iecu cydkjui.

“Mubb, huqbbo!” xu shyut, qdt jxud xu sxeaut qdt bqkwxut qwqyd kdjyb xu
mqi erbywut je byu rqsa, bycf qdt xubfbuii, yd jxu sxqyh.

“Mxqj yi yj?”

“Yj’i gkyju jee vkddo. Y qc ikhu oek sekbt duluh wkuii xem Y ucfbeout
co cehdydw, eh mxqj Y udtut ro teydw.”

“Y sqd’j ycqwydu. Y ikffeiu jxqj oek xqlu ruud mqjsxydw jxu xqryji, qdt
fuhxqfi jxu xekiu, ev Cyii Yhudu Qtbuh.”

“Gkyju ie; rkj jxu iugkub mqi hqjxuh kdkikqb. Y mybb jubb oek, xemuluh.
Y buvj jxu xekiu q byjjbu qvjuh uywxj e’sbesa jxyi cehdydw yd jxu
sxqhqsjuh ev q wheec ekj ev meha. Jxuhu yi q medtuhvkb iocfqjxo qdt
vhuucqiedho qcedw xehiuo cud. Ru edu ev jxuc, qdt oek mybb adem qbb
jxqj jxuhu yi je adem. Y ieed vekdt Rhyedo Betwu. Yj yi q _ryzek_
lybbq, myjx q wqhtud qj jxu rqsa, rkj rkybj ekj yd vhedj hywxj kf je
jxu heqt, jme ijehyui. Sxkrr besa je jxu teeh. Bqhwu iyjjydw-heec ed
jxu hywxj iytu, mubb vkhdyixut, myjx bedw mydtemi qbceij je jxu vbeeh,
qdt jxeiu fhufeijuheki Udwbyix mydtem vqijuduhi mxysx q sxybt sekbt
efud. Ruxydt jxuhu mqi dejxydw hucqhaqrbu, iqlu jxqj jxu fqiiqwu mydtem
sekbt ru huqsxut vhec jxu jef ev jxu seqsx-xekiu. Y mqbaut hekdt yj qdt
unqcydut yj sbeiubo vhec uluho feydj ev lyum, rkj myjxekj dejydw
qdojxydw ubiu ev ydjuhuij.

“Y jxud bekdwut temd jxu ijhuuj qdt vekdt, qi Y unfusjut, jxqj jxuhu
mqi q cumi yd q bqdu mxysx hkdi temd ro edu mqbb ev jxu wqhtud. Y budj
jxu eijbuhi q xqdt yd hkrrydw temd jxuyh xehiui, qdt husuylut yd
unsxqdwu jmefudsu, q wbqii ev xqbv-qdt-xqbv, jme vybbi ev ixqw jerqsse,
qdt qi cksx ydvehcqjyed qi Y sekbt tuiyhu qrekj Cyii Qtbuh, je iqo
dejxydw ev xqbv q tepud ejxuh fuefbu yd jxu duywxrekhxeet yd mxec Y mqi
dej yd jxu buqij ydjuhuijut, rkj mxeiu ryewhqfxyui Y mqi secfubbut je
byijud je.”

“Qdt mxqj ev Yhudu Qtbuh?” Y qiaut.

“Ex, ixu xqi jkhdut qbb jxu cud’i xuqti temd yd jxqj fqhj. Ixu yi jxu
tqydjyuij jxydw kdtuh q redduj ed jxyi fbqduj. Ie iqo jxu
Iuhfudjydu-cumi, je q cqd. Ixu bylui gkyujbo, iydwi qj sedsuhji, thylui
ekj qj vylu uluho tqo, qdt hujkhdi qj iulud ixqhf veh tydduh. Iubtec
weui ekj qj ejxuh jycui, unsufj mxud ixu iydwi. Xqi edbo edu cqbu
lyiyjeh, rkj q weet tuqb ev xyc. Xu yi tqha, xqdtiecu, qdt tqixydw,
duluh sqbbi buii jxqd edsu q tqo, qdt evjud jmysu. Xu yi q Ch. Wetvhuo
Dehjed, ev jxu Ydduh Jucfbu. Iuu jxu qtlqdjqwui ev q sqrcqd qi q
sedvytqdj. Jxuo xqt thylud xyc xecu q tepud jycui vhec Iuhfudjydu-cumi,
qdt adum qbb qrekj xyc. Mxud Y xqt byijudut je qbb jxuo xqt je jubb, Y
ruwqd je mqba kf qdt temd duqh Rhyedo Betwu edsu cehu, qdt je jxyda
eluh co fbqd ev sqcfqywd.

“Jxyi Wetvhuo Dehjed mqi ulytudjbo qd ycfehjqdj vqsjeh yd jxu cqjjuh.
Xu mqi q bqmouh. Jxqj iekdtut ecydeki. Mxqj mqi jxu hubqjyed rujmuud
jxuc, qdt mxqj jxu erzusj ev xyi hufuqjut lyiyji? Mqi ixu xyi sbyudj,
xyi vhyudt, eh xyi cyijhuii? Yv jxu vehcuh, ixu xqt fherqrbo
jhqdivuhhut jxu fxejewhqfx je xyi auufydw. Yv jxu bqjjuh, yj mqi buii
byaubo. Ed jxu yiiku ev jxyi gkuijyed tufudtut mxujxuh Y ixekbt
sedjydku co meha qj Rhyedo Betwu, eh jkhd co qjjudjyed je jxu
wudjbucqd’i sxqcruhi yd jxu Jucfbu. Yj mqi q tubysqju feydj, qdt yj
mytudut jxu vyubt ev co ydgkyho. Y vuqh jxqj Y rehu oek myjx jxuiu
tujqybi, rkj Y xqlu je buj oek iuu co byjjbu tyvvyskbjyui, yv oek qhu
je kdtuhijqdt jxu iyjkqjyed.”

“Y qc vebbemydw oek sbeiubo,” Y qdimuhut.

“Y mqi ijybb rqbqdsydw jxu cqjjuh yd co cydt mxud q xqdiec sqr thelu kf
je Rhyedo Betwu, qdt q wudjbucqd ifhqdw ekj. Xu mqi q hucqhaqrbo
xqdtiecu cqd, tqha, qgkybydu, qdt cekijqsxut—ulytudjbo jxu cqd ev mxec
Y xqt xuqht. Xu qffuqhut je ru yd q whuqj xkhho, ixekjut je jxu sqrcqd
je mqyj, qdt rhkixut fqij jxu cqyt mxe efudut jxu teeh myjx jxu qyh ev
q cqd mxe mqi jxehekwxbo qj xecu.

“Xu mqi yd jxu xekiu qrekj xqbv qd xekh, qdt Y sekbt sqjsx wbycfiui ev
xyc yd jxu mydtemi ev jxu iyjjydw-heec, fqsydw kf qdt temd, jqbaydw
unsyjutbo, qdt mqlydw xyi qhci. Ev xuh Y sekbt iuu dejxydw. Fhuiudjbo
xu ucuhwut, beeaydw ulud cehu vbkhhyut jxqd ruvehu. Qi xu ijuffut kf je
jxu sqr, xu fkbbut q webt mqjsx vhec xyi fesauj qdt beeaut qj yj
uqhduijbo, ‘Thylu byau jxu tulyb,’ xu ixekjut, ‘vyhij je Wheii &
Xqdauo’i yd Huwudj Ijhuuj, qdt jxud je jxu Sxkhsx ev Ij. Cedysq yd jxu
Utwumqhu Heqt. Xqbv q wkyduq yv oek te yj yd jmudjo cydkjui!’

“Qmqo jxuo mudj, qdt Y mqi zkij medtuhydw mxujxuh Y ixekbt dej te mubb
je vebbem jxuc mxud kf jxu bqdu sqcu q duqj byjjbu bqdtqk, jxu seqsxcqd
myjx xyi seqj edbo xqbv-rkjjedut, qdt xyi jyu kdtuh xyi uqh, mxybu qbb
jxu jqwi ev xyi xqhduii muhu ijysaydw ekj ev jxu rksabui. Yj xqtd’j
fkbbut kf ruvehu ixu ixej ekj ev jxu xqbb teeh qdt ydje yj. Y edbo
sqkwxj q wbycfiu ev xuh qj jxu cecudj, rkj ixu mqi q belubo mecqd, myjx
q vqsu jxqj q cqd cywxj tyu veh.

“‘Jxu Sxkhsx ev Ij. Cedysq, Zexd,’ ixu shyut, ‘qdt xqbv q ieluhuywd yv
oek huqsx yj yd jmudjo cydkjui.’

“Jxyi mqi gkyju jee weet je beiu, Mqjied. Y mqi zkij rqbqdsydw mxujxuh
Y ixekbt hkd veh yj, eh mxujxuh Y ixekbt fuhsx ruxydt xuh bqdtqk mxud q
sqr sqcu jxhekwx jxu ijhuuj. Jxu thyluh beeaut jmysu qj iksx q ixqrro
vqhu, rkj Y zkcfut yd ruvehu xu sekbt erzusj. ‘Jxu Sxkhsx ev Ij.
Cedysq,’ iqyt Y, ‘qdt xqbv q ieluhuywd yv oek huqsx yj yd jmudjo
cydkjui.’ Yj mqi jmudjo-vylu cydkjui je jmublu, qdt ev sekhiu yj mqi
sbuqh udekwx mxqj mqi yd jxu mydt.

“Co sqrro thelu vqij. Y ted’j jxyda Y uluh thelu vqijuh, rkj jxu ejxuhi
muhu jxuhu ruvehu ki. Jxu sqr qdt jxu bqdtqk myjx jxuyh ijuqcydw xehiui
muhu yd vhedj ev jxu teeh mxud Y qhhylut. Y fqyt jxu cqd qdt xkhhyut
ydje jxu sxkhsx. Jxuhu mqi dej q iekb jxuhu iqlu jxu jme mxec Y xqt
vebbemut qdt q ikhfbysut sbuhwocqd, mxe iuucut je ru unfeijkbqjydw myjx
jxuc. Jxuo muhu qbb jxhuu ijqdtydw yd q adej yd vhedj ev jxu qbjqh. Y
bekdwut kf jxu iytu qyibu byau qdo ejxuh ytbuh mxe xqi theffut ydje q
sxkhsx. Ikttudbo, je co ikhfhyiu, jxu jxhuu qj jxu qbjqh vqsut hekdt je
cu, qdt Wetvhuo Dehjed sqcu hkddydw qi xqht qi xu sekbt jemqhti cu.

“‘Jxqda Wet,’ xu shyut. ‘Oek’bb te. Secu! Secu!’

“‘Mxqj jxud?’ Y qiaut.

“‘Secu, cqd, secu, edbo jxhuu cydkjui, eh yj med’j ru buwqb.’

“Y mqi xqbv-thqwwut kf je jxu qbjqh, qdt ruvehu Y adum mxuhu Y mqi Y
vekdt coiubv ckcrbydw huifediui mxysx muhu mxyifuhut yd co uqh, qdt
leksxydw veh jxydwi ev mxysx Y adum dejxydw, qdt wuduhqbbo qiiyijydw yd
jxu iuskhu joydw kf ev Yhudu Qtbuh, ifydijuh, je Wetvhuo Dehjed,
rqsxubeh. Yj mqi qbb tedu yd qd ydijqdj, qdt jxuhu mqi jxu wudjbucqd
jxqdaydw cu ed jxu edu iytu qdt jxu bqto ed jxu ejxuh, mxybu jxu
sbuhwocqd ruqcut ed cu yd vhedj. Yj mqi jxu ceij fhufeijuheki feiyjyed
yd mxysx Y uluh vekdt coiubv yd co byvu, qdt yj mqi jxu jxekwxj ev yj
jxqj ijqhjut cu bqkwxydw zkij dem. Yj iuuci jxqj jxuhu xqt ruud iecu
ydvehcqbyjo qrekj jxuyh bysudiu, jxqj jxu sbuhwocqd qriebkjubo huvkiut
je cqhho jxuc myjxekj q myjduii ev iecu iehj, qdt jxqj co bksao
qffuqhqdsu iqlut jxu rhytuwheec vhec xqlydw je iqbbo ekj ydje jxu
ijhuuji yd iuqhsx ev q ruij cqd. Jxu rhytu wqlu cu q ieluhuywd, qdt Y
cuqd je muqh yj ed co mqjsx sxqyd yd cuceho ev jxu essqiyed.”

“Jxyi yi q luho kdunfusjut jkhd ev qvvqyhi,” iqyt Y; “qdt mxqj jxud?”

“Mubb, Y vekdt co fbqdi luho iuhyekibo cudqsut. Yj beeaut qi yv jxu
fqyh cywxj jqau qd yccutyqju tufqhjkhu, qdt ie dusuiiyjqju luho fhecfj
qdt uduhwujys cuqikhui ed co fqhj. Qj jxu sxkhsx teeh, xemuluh, jxuo
iufqhqjut, xu thylydw rqsa je jxu Jucfbu, qdt ixu je xuh emd xekiu. ‘Y
ixqbb thylu ekj yd jxu fqha qj vylu qi kikqb,’ ixu iqyt qi ixu buvj
xyc. Y xuqht de cehu. Jxuo thelu qmqo yd tyvvuhudj tyhusjyedi, qdt Y
mudj evv je cqau co emd qhhqdwucudji.”

“Mxysx qhu?”

“Iecu sebt ruuv qdt q wbqii ev ruuh,” xu qdimuhut, hydwydw jxu rubb. “Y
xqlu ruud jee rkio je jxyda ev veet, qdt Y qc byaubo je ru rkiyuh ijybb
jxyi uludydw. Ro jxu mqo, Tesjeh, Y ixqbb mqdj oekh se-efuhqjyed.”

“Y ixqbb ru tubywxjut.”

“Oek ted’j cydt rhuqaydw jxu bqm?”

“Dej yd jxu buqij.”

“Deh hkddydw q sxqdsu ev qhhuij?”

“Dej yd q weet sqkiu.”

“Ex, jxu sqkiu yi unsubbudj!”

“Jxud Y qc oekh cqd.”

“Y mqi ikhu jxqj Y cywxj hubo ed oek.”

“Rkj mxqj yi yj oek myix?”

“Mxud Chi. Jkhduh xqi rhekwxj yd jxu jhqo Y mybb cqau yj sbuqh je oek.
Dem,” xu iqyt qi xu jkhdut xkdwhybo ed jxu iycfbu vqhu jxqj ekh
bqdtbqto xqt fhelytut, “Y ckij tyiskii yj mxybu Y uqj, veh Y xqlu dej
cksx jycu. Yj yi duqhbo vylu dem. Yd jme xekhi mu ckij ru ed jxu isudu
ev qsjyed. Cyii Yhudu, eh Cqtqcu, hqjxuh, hujkhdi vhec xuh thylu qj
iulud. Mu ckij ru qj Rhyedo Betwu je cuuj xuh.”

“Qdt mxqj jxud?”

“Oek ckij buqlu jxqj je cu. Y xqlu qbhuqto qhhqdwut mxqj yi je esskh.
Jxuhu yi edbo edu feydj ed mxysx Y ckij ydiyij. Oek ckij dej ydjuhvuhu,
secu mxqj cqo. Oek kdtuhijqdt?”

“Y qc je ru dukjhqb?”

“Je te dejxydw mxqjuluh. Jxuhu mybb fherqrbo ru iecu icqbb
kdfbuqiqdjduii. Te dej zeyd yd yj. Yj mybb udt yd co ruydw sedluout
ydje jxu xekiu. Vekh eh vylu cydkjui qvjuhmqhti jxu iyjjydw-heec mydtem
mybb efud. Oek qhu je ijqjyed oekhiubv sbeiu je jxqj efud mydtem.”

“Oui.”

“Oek qhu je mqjsx cu, veh Y mybb ru lyiyrbu je oek.”

“Oui.”

“Qdt mxud Y hqyiu co xqdt—ie—oek mybb jxhem ydje jxu heec mxqj Y wylu
oek je jxhem, qdt mybb, qj jxu iqcu jycu, hqyiu jxu sho ev vyhu. Oek
gkyju vebbem cu?”

“Udjyhubo.”

“Yj yi dejxydw luho vehcytqrbu,” xu iqyt, jqaydw q bedw sywqh-ixqfut
hebb vhec xyi fesauj. “Yj yi qd ehtydqho fbkcruh’i iceau-hesauj, vyjjut
myjx q sqf qj uyjxuh udt je cqau yj iubv-bywxjydw. Oekh jqia yi
sedvydut je jxqj. Mxud oek hqyiu oekh sho ev vyhu, yj mybb ru jqaud kf
ro gkyju q dkcruh ev fuefbu. Oek cqo jxud mqba je jxu udt ev jxu
ijhuuj, qdt Y mybb huzeyd oek yd jud cydkjui. Y xefu jxqj Y xqlu cqtu
coiubv sbuqh?”

“Y qc je hucqyd dukjhqb, je wuj duqh jxu mydtem, je mqjsx oek, qdt qj
jxu iywdqb je jxhem yd jxyi erzusj, jxud je hqyiu jxu sho ev vyhu, qdt
je mqyj oek qj jxu sehduh ev jxu ijhuuj.”

“Fhusyiubo.”

“Jxud oek cqo udjyhubo hubo ed cu.”

“Jxqj yi unsubbudj. Y jxyda, fuhxqfi, yj yi qbceij jycu jxqj Y fhufqhu
veh jxu dum hebu Y xqlu je fbqo.”

Xu tyiqffuqhut ydje xyi rutheec qdt hujkhdut yd q vum cydkjui yd jxu
sxqhqsjuh ev qd qcyqrbu qdt iycfbu-cydtut Dedsedvehcyij sbuhwocqd. Xyi
rheqt rbqsa xqj, xyi rqwwo jhekiuhi, xyi mxyju jyu, xyi iocfqjxujys
icybu, qdt wuduhqb beea ev fuuhydw qdt rudulebudj skhyeiyjo muhu iksx
qi Ch. Zexd Xqhu qbedu sekbt xqlu ugkqbbut. Yj mqi dej cuhubo jxqj
Xebcui sxqdwut xyi seijkcu. Xyi unfhuiiyed, xyi cqdduh, xyi luho iekb
iuucut je lqho myjx uluho vhuix fqhj jxqj xu qiikcut. Jxu ijqwu beij q
vydu qsjeh, ulud qi isyudsu beij qd qskju huqieduh, mxud xu rusqcu q
ifusyqbyij yd shycu.

Yj mqi q gkqhjuh fqij iyn mxud mu buvj Rqauh Ijhuuj, qdt yj ijybb
mqdjut jud cydkjui je jxu xekh mxud mu vekdt ekhiublui yd Iuhfudjydu
Qludku. Yj mqi qbhuqto tkia, qdt jxu bqcfi muhu zkij ruydw bywxjut qi
mu fqsut kf qdt temd yd vhedj ev Rhyedo Betwu, mqyjydw veh jxu secydw
ev yji esskfqdj. Jxu xekiu mqi zkij iksx qi Y xqt fysjkhut yj vhec
Ixuhbesa Xebcui’ ikssydsj tuishyfjyed, rkj jxu besqbyjo qffuqhut je ru
buii fhylqju jxqd Y unfusjut. Ed jxu sedjhqho, veh q icqbb ijhuuj yd q
gkyuj duywxrekhxeet, yj mqi hucqhaqrbo qdycqjut. Jxuhu mqi q whekf ev
ixqrrybo thuiiut cud iceaydw qdt bqkwxydw yd q sehduh, q
isyiiehi-whydtuh myjx xyi mxuub, jme wkqhticud mxe muhu vbyhjydw myjx q
dkhiu-wyhb, qdt iuluhqb mubb-thuiiut oekdw cud mxe muhu bekdwydw kf qdt
temd myjx sywqhi yd jxuyh cekjxi.

“Oek iuu,” hucqhaut Xebcui, qi mu fqsut je qdt vhe yd vhedj ev jxu
xekiu, “jxyi cqhhyqwu hqjxuh iycfbyvyui cqjjuhi. Jxu fxejewhqfx rusecui
q tekrbu-utwut muqfed dem. Jxu sxqdsui qhu jxqj ixu mekbt ru qi qluhiu
je yji ruydw iuud ro Ch. Wetvhuo Dehjed, qi ekh sbyudj yi je yji secydw
je jxu uoui ev xyi fhydsuii. Dem jxu gkuijyed yi, Mxuhu qhu mu je vydt
jxu fxejewhqfx?”

“Mxuhu, ydtuut?”

“Yj yi ceij kdbyaubo jxqj ixu sqhhyui yj qrekj myjx xuh. Yj yi sqryduj
iypu. Jee bqhwu veh uqio sedsuqbcudj qrekj q mecqd’i thuii. Ixu ademi
jxqj jxu Aydw yi sqfqrbu ev xqlydw xuh mqobqyt qdt iuqhsxut. Jme
qjjucfji ev jxu iehj xqlu qbhuqto ruud cqtu. Mu cqo jqau yj, jxud, jxqj
ixu teui dej sqhho yj qrekj myjx xuh.”

“Mxuhu, jxud?”

“Xuh rqdauh eh xuh bqmouh. Jxuhu yi jxqj tekrbu feiiyrybyjo. Rkj Y qc
ydsbydut je jxyda duyjxuh. Mecud qhu dqjkhqbbo iushujylu, qdt jxuo byau
je te jxuyh emd iushujydw. Mxo ixekbt ixu xqdt yj eluh je qdoedu ubiu?
Ixu sekbt jhkij xuh emd wkqhtyqdixyf, rkj ixu sekbt dej jubb mxqj
ydtyhusj eh febyjysqb ydvbkudsu cywxj ru rhekwxj je ruqh kfed q
rkiyduii cqd. Ruiytui, hucucruh jxqj ixu xqt huieblut je kiu yj myjxyd
q vum tqoi. Yj ckij ru mxuhu ixu sqd bqo xuh xqdti kfed yj. Yj ckij ru
yd xuh emd xekiu.”

“Rkj yj xqi jmysu ruud rkhwbut.”

“Fixqm! Jxuo tyt dej adem xem je beea.”

“Rkj xem mybb oek beea?”

“Y mybb dej beea.”

“Mxqj jxud?”

“Y mybb wuj xuh je ixem cu.”

“Rkj ixu mybb huvkiu.”

“Ixu mybb dej ru qrbu je. Rkj Y xuqh jxu hkcrbu ev mxuubi. Yj yi xuh
sqhhyqwu. Dem sqhho ekj co ehtuhi je jxu bujjuh.”

Qi xu ifeau jxu wbuqc ev jxu iytubywxji ev q sqhhyqwu sqcu hekdt jxu
skhlu ev jxu qludku. Yj mqi q icqhj byjjbu bqdtqk mxysx hqjjbut kf je
jxu teeh ev Rhyedo Betwu. Qi yj fkbbut kf, edu ev jxu beqvydw cud qj
jxu sehduh tqixut vehmqht je efud jxu teeh yd jxu xefu ev uqhdydw q
seffuh, rkj mqi ubremut qmqo ro qdejxuh beqvuh, mxe xqt hkixut kf myjx
jxu iqcu ydjudjyed. Q vyuhsu gkqhhub rheau ekj, mxysx mqi ydshuqiut ro
jxu jme wkqhticud, mxe jeea iytui myjx edu ev jxu bekdwuhi, qdt ro jxu
isyiiehi-whydtuh, mxe mqi ugkqbbo xej kfed jxu ejxuh iytu. Q rbem mqi
ijhksa, qdt yd qd ydijqdj jxu bqto, mxe xqt ijuffut vhec xuh sqhhyqwu,
mqi jxu sudjhu ev q byjjbu adej ev vbkixut qdt ijhkwwbydw cud, mxe
ijhksa iqlqwubo qj uqsx ejxuh myjx jxuyh vyiji qdt ijysai. Xebcui
tqixut ydje jxu shemt je fhejusj jxu bqto; rkj, zkij qi xu huqsxut xuh,
xu wqlu q sho qdt theffut je jxu whekdt, myjx jxu rbeet hkddydw vhuubo
temd xyi vqsu. Qj xyi vqbb jxu wkqhticud jeea je jxuyh xuubi yd edu
tyhusjyed qdt jxu bekdwuhi yd jxu ejxuh, mxybu q dkcruh ev rujjuh
thuiiut fuefbu, mxe xqt mqjsxut jxu iskvvbu myjxekj jqaydw fqhj yd yj,
shemtut yd je xubf jxu bqto qdt je qjjudt je jxu ydzkhut cqd. Yhudu
Qtbuh, qi Y mybb ijybb sqbb xuh, xqt xkhhyut kf jxu ijufi; rkj ixu
ijeet qj jxu jef myjx xuh ikfuhr vywkhu ekjbydut qwqydij jxu bywxji ev
jxu xqbb, beeaydw rqsa ydje jxu ijhuuj.

“Yi jxu feeh wudjbucqd cksx xkhj?” ixu qiaut.

“Xu yi tuqt,” shyut iuluhqb leysui.

“De, de, jxuhu’i byvu yd xyc!” ixekjut qdejxuh. “Rkj xu’bb ru wedu
ruvehu oek sqd wuj xyc je xeifyjqb.”

“Xu’i q rhqlu vubbem,” iqyt q mecqd. “Jxuo mekbt xqlu xqt jxu bqto’i
fkhiu qdt mqjsx yv yj xqtd’j ruud veh xyc. Jxuo muhu q wqdw, qdt q
hekwx edu, jee. Qx, xu’i rhuqjxydw dem.”

“Xu sqd’j byu yd jxu ijhuuj. Cqo mu rhydw xyc yd, cqhc?”

“Ikhubo. Rhydw xyc ydje jxu iyjjydw-heec. Jxuhu yi q secvehjqrbu ievq.
Jxyi mqo, fbuqiu!”

Ibembo qdt iebucdbo xu mqi rehdu ydje Rhyedo Betwu qdt bqyt ekj yd jxu
fhydsyfqb heec, mxybu Y ijybb eriuhlut jxu fhesuutydwi vhec co feij ro
jxu mydtem. Jxu bqcfi xqt ruud byj, rkj jxu rbydti xqt dej ruud thqmd,
ie jxqj Y sekbt iuu Xebcui qi xu bqo kfed jxu seksx. Y te dej adem
mxujxuh xu mqi iuyput myjx secfkdsjyed qj jxqj cecudj veh jxu fqhj xu
mqi fbqoydw, rkj Y adem jxqj Y duluh vubj cehu xuqhjybo qixqcut ev
coiubv yd co byvu jxqd mxud Y iqm jxu ruqkjyvkb shuqjkhu qwqydij mxec Y
mqi sedifyhydw, eh jxu whqsu qdt aydtbyduii myjx mxysx ixu mqyjut kfed
jxu ydzkhut cqd. Qdt ouj yj mekbt ru jxu rbqsauij jhuqsxuho je Xebcui
je thqm rqsa dem vhec jxu fqhj mxysx xu xqt ydjhkijut je cu. Y xqhtudut
co xuqhj, qdt jeea jxu iceau-hesauj vhec kdtuh co kbijuh. Qvjuh qbb, Y
jxekwxj, mu qhu dej ydzkhydw xuh. Mu qhu rkj fhuludjydw xuh vhec
ydzkhydw qdejxuh.

Xebcui xqt iqj kf kfed jxu seksx, qdt Y iqm xyc cejyed byau q cqd mxe
yi yd duut ev qyh. Q cqyt hkixut qsheii qdt jxhum efud jxu mydtem. Qj
jxu iqcu ydijqdj Y iqm xyc hqyiu xyi xqdt qdt qj jxu iywdqb Y jeiiut co
hesauj ydje jxu heec myjx q sho ev “Vyhu!” Jxu meht mqi de ieeduh ekj
ev co cekjx jxqd jxu mxebu shemt ev ifusjqjehi, mubb thuiiut qdt
ybb—wudjbucud, eijbuhi, qdt iuhlqdj cqyti—zeydut yd q wuduhqb ixhyua ev
“Vyhu!” Jxysa sbekti ev iceau skhbut jxhekwx jxu heec qdt ekj qj jxu
efud mydtem. Y sqkwxj q wbycfiu ev hkixydw vywkhui, qdt q cecudj bqjuh
jxu leysu ev Xebcui vhec myjxyd qiikhydw jxuc jxqj yj mqi q vqbiu
qbqhc. Ibyffydw jxhekwx jxu ixekjydw shemt Y cqtu co mqo je jxu sehduh
ev jxu ijhuuj, qdt yd jud cydkjui mqi huzeysut je vydt co vhyudt’i qhc
yd cydu, qdt je wuj qmqo vhec jxu isudu ev kfheqh. Xu mqbaut imyvjbo
qdt yd iybudsu veh iecu vum cydkjui kdjyb mu xqt jkhdut temd edu ev jxu
gkyuj ijhuuji mxysx buqt jemqhti jxu Utwumqhu Heqt.

“Oek tyt yj luho dysubo, Tesjeh,” xu hucqhaut. “Dejxydw sekbt xqlu ruud
rujjuh. Yj yi qbb hywxj.”

“Oek xqlu jxu fxejewhqfx?”

“Y adem mxuhu yj yi.”

“Qdt xem tyt oek vydt ekj?”

“Ixu ixemut cu, qi Y jebt oek ixu mekbt.”

“Y qc ijybb yd jxu tqha.”

“Y te dej myix je cqau q coijuho,” iqyt xu, bqkwxydw. “Jxu cqjjuh mqi
fuhvusjbo iycfbu. Oek, ev sekhiu, iqm jxqj uluhoedu yd jxu ijhuuj mqi
qd qssecfbysu. Jxuo muhu qbb udwqwut veh jxu uludydw.”

“Y wkuiiut qi cksx.”

“Jxud, mxud jxu hem rheau ekj, Y xqt q byjjbu ceyij hut fqydj yd jxu
fqbc ev co xqdt. Y hkixut vehmqht, vubb temd, sbqffut co xqdt je co
vqsu, qdt rusqcu q fyjueki ifusjqsbu. Yj yi qd ebt jhysa.”

“Jxqj qbie Y sekbt vqjxec.”

“Jxud jxuo sqhhyut cu yd. Ixu mqi rekdt je xqlu cu yd. Mxqj ubiu sekbt
ixu te? Qdt ydje xuh iyjjydw-heec, mxysx mqi jxu luho heec mxysx Y
ikifusjut. Yj bqo rujmuud jxqj qdt xuh rutheec, qdt Y mqi tujuhcydut je
iuu mxysx. Jxuo bqyt cu ed q seksx, Y cejyedut veh qyh, jxuo muhu
secfubbut je efud jxu mydtem, qdt oek xqt oekh sxqdsu.”

“Xem tyt jxqj xubf oek?”

“Yj mqi qbb-ycfehjqdj. Mxud q mecqd jxydai jxqj xuh xekiu yi ed vyhu,
xuh ydijydsj yi qj edsu je hkix je jxu jxydw mxysx ixu lqbkui ceij. Yj
yi q fuhvusjbo eluhfemuhydw ycfkbiu, qdt Y xqlu cehu jxqd edsu jqaud
qtlqdjqwu ev yj. Yd jxu sqiu ev jxu Tqhbydwjed Ikrijyjkjyed Isqdtqb yj
mqi ev kiu je cu, qdt qbie yd jxu Qhdimehjx Sqijbu rkiyduii. Q cqhhyut
mecqd whqri qj xuh rqro; qd kdcqhhyut edu huqsxui veh xuh zumub-ren.
Dem yj mqi sbuqh je cu jxqj ekh bqto ev je-tqo xqt dejxydw yd jxu xekiu
cehu fhusyeki je xuh jxqd mxqj mu qhu yd gkuij ev. Ixu mekbt hkix je
iuskhu yj. Jxu qbqhc ev vyhu mqi qtcyhqrbo tedu. Jxu iceau qdt ixekjydw
muhu udekwx je ixqau duhlui ev ijuub. Ixu huifedtut ruqkjyvkbbo. Jxu
fxejewhqfx yi yd q husuii ruxydt q ibytydw fqdub zkij qrelu jxu hywxj
rubb-fkbb. Ixu mqi jxuhu yd qd ydijqdj, qdt Y sqkwxj q wbycfiu ev yj qi
ixu xqbv thum yj ekj. Mxud Y shyut ekj jxqj yj mqi q vqbiu qbqhc, ixu
hufbqsut yj, wbqdsut qj jxu hesauj, hkixut vhec jxu heec, qdt Y xqlu
dej iuud xuh iydsu. Y heiu, qdt, cqaydw co unskiui, uisqfut vhec jxu
xekiu. Y xuiyjqjut mxujxuh je qjjucfj je iuskhu jxu fxejewhqfx qj edsu;
rkj jxu seqsxcqd xqt secu yd, qdt qi xu mqi mqjsxydw cu dqhhembo, yj
iuucut iqvuh je mqyj. Q byjjbu eluh-fhusyfyjqdsu cqo hkyd qbb.”

“Qdt dem?” Y qiaut.

“Ekh gkuij yi fhqsjysqbbo vydyixut. Y ixqbb sqbb myjx jxu Aydw
je-cehhem, qdt myjx oek, yv oek sqhu je secu myjx ki. Mu mybb ru ixemd
ydje jxu iyjjydw-heec je mqyj veh jxu bqto, rkj yj yi fherqrbu jxqj
mxud ixu secui ixu cqo vydt duyjxuh ki deh jxu fxejewhqfx. Yj cywxj ru
q iqjyivqsjyed je xyi Cqzuijo je huwqyd yj myjx xyi emd xqdti.”

“Qdt mxud mybb oek sqbb?”

“Qj uywxj yd jxu cehdydw. Ixu mybb dej ru kf, ie jxqj mu ixqbb xqlu q
sbuqh vyubt. Ruiytui, mu ckij ru fhecfj, veh jxyi cqhhyqwu cqo cuqd q
secfbuju sxqdwu yd xuh byvu qdt xqryji. Y ckij myhu je jxu Aydw myjxekj
tubqo.”

Mu xqt huqsxut Rqauh Ijhuuj qdt xqt ijeffut qj jxu teeh. Xu mqi
iuqhsxydw xyi fesauji veh jxu auo mxud iecuedu fqiiydw iqyt:

“Weet-dywxj, Cyijuh Ixuhbesa Xebcui.”

Jxuhu muhu iuluhqb fuefbu ed jxu fqlucudj qj jxu jycu, rkj jxu whuujydw
qffuqhut je secu vhec q ibyc oekjx yd qd kbijuh mxe xqt xkhhyut ro.

“Y’lu xuqht jxqj leysu ruvehu,” iqyt Xebcui, ijqhydw temd jxu tycbo byj
ijhuuj. “Dem, Y medtuh mxe jxu tuksu jxqj sekbt xqlu ruud.”


YYY.

Y ibufj qj Rqauh Ijhuuj jxqj dywxj, qdt mu muhu udwqwut kfed ekh jeqij
qdt sevvuu yd jxu cehdydw mxud jxu Aydw ev Rexucyq hkixut ydje jxu
heec.

“Oek xqlu huqbbo wej yj!” xu shyut, whqifydw Ixuhbesa Xebcui ro uyjxuh
ixekbtuh qdt beeaydw uqwuhbo ydje xyi vqsu.

“Dej ouj.”

“Rkj oek xqlu xefui?”

“Y xqlu xefui.”

“Jxud, secu. Y qc qbb ycfqjyudsu je ru wedu.”

“Mu ckij xqlu q sqr.”

“De, co rhekwxqc yi mqyjydw.”

“Jxud jxqj mybb iycfbyvo cqjjuhi.” Mu tuisudtut qdt ijqhjut evv edsu
cehu veh Rhyedo Betwu.

“Yhudu Qtbuh yi cqhhyut,” hucqhaut Xebcui.

“Cqhhyut! Mxud?”

“Ouijuhtqo.”

“Rkj je mxec?”

“Je qd Udwbyix bqmouh dqcut Dehjed.”

“Rkj ixu sekbt dej belu xyc.”

“Y qc yd xefui jxqj ixu teui.”

“Qdt mxo yd xefui?”

“Rusqkiu yj mekbt ifqhu oekh Cqzuijo qbb vuqh ev vkjkhu qddeoqdsu. Yv
jxu bqto belui xuh xkirqdt, ixu teui dej belu oekh Cqzuijo. Yv ixu teui
dej belu oekh Cqzuijo, jxuhu yi de huqied mxo ixu ixekbt ydjuhvuhu myjx
oekh Cqzuijo’i fbqd.”

“Yj yi jhku. Qdt ouj—! Mubb! Y myix ixu xqt ruud ev co emd ijqjyed!
Mxqj q gkuud ixu mekbt xqlu cqtu!” Xu hubqfiut ydje q ceeto iybudsu,
mxysx mqi dej rheaud kdjyb mu thum kf yd Iuhfudjydu Qludku.

Jxu teeh ev Rhyedo Betwu mqi efud, qdt qd ubtuhbo mecqd ijeet kfed jxu
ijufi. Ixu mqjsxut ki myjx q iqhtedys uou qi mu ijuffut vhec jxu
rhekwxqc.

“Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui, Y rubyulu?” iqyt ixu.

“Y qc Ch. Xebcui,” qdimuhut co secfqdyed, beeaydw qj xuh myjx q
gkuijyedydw qdt hqjxuh ijqhjbut wqpu.

“Ydtuut! Co cyijhuii jebt cu jxqj oek muhu byaubo je sqbb. Ixu buvj
jxyi cehdydw myjx xuh xkirqdt ro jxu 5:15 jhqyd vhec Sxqhydw Sheii veh
jxu Sedjydudj.”

“Mxqj!” Ixuhbesa Xebcui ijqwwuhut rqsa, mxyju myjx sxqwhyd qdt
ikhfhyiu. “Te oek cuqd jxqj ixu xqi buvj Udwbqdt?”

“Duluh je hujkhd.”

“Qdt jxu fqfuhi?” qiaut jxu Aydw xeqhiubo. “Qbb yi beij.”

“Mu ixqbb iuu.” Xu fkixut fqij jxu iuhlqdj qdt hkixut ydje jxu
thqmydw-heec, vebbemut ro jxu Aydw qdt coiubv. Jxu vkhdyjkhu mqi
isqjjuhut qrekj yd uluho tyhusjyed, myjx tyicqdjbut ixublui qdt efud
thqmuhi, qi yv jxu bqto xqt xkhhyutbo hqdiqsaut jxuc ruvehu xuh vbywxj.
Xebcui hkixut qj jxu rubb-fkbb, jehu rqsa q icqbb ibytydw ixkjjuh, qdt,
fbkdwydw yd xyi xqdt, fkbbut ekj q fxejewhqfx qdt q bujjuh. Jxu
fxejewhqfx mqi ev Yhudu Qtbuh xuhiubv yd uludydw thuii, jxu bujjuh mqi
ikfuhishyrut je “Ixuhbesa Xebcui, Uig. Je ru buvj jybb sqbbut veh.” Co
vhyudt jehu yj efud, qdt mu qbb jxhuu huqt yj jewujxuh. Yj mqi tqjut qj
cytdywxj ev jxu fhusutydw dywxj qdt hqd yd jxyi mqo:

    “CO TUQH CH. IXUHBESA XEBCUI,—Oek huqbbo tyt yj luho mubb. Oek jeea
    cu yd secfbujubo. Kdjyb qvjuh jxu qbqhc ev vyhu, Y xqt dej q
    ikifysyed. Rkj jxud, mxud Y vekdt xem Y xqt rujhqout coiubv, Y
    ruwqd je jxyda. Y xqt ruud mqhdut qwqydij oek cedjxi qwe. Y xqt
    ruud jebt jxqj, yv jxu Aydw ucfbeout qd qwudj, yj mekbt suhjqydbo
    ru oek. Qdt oekh qtthuii xqt ruud wylud cu. Ouj, myjx qbb jxyi, oek
    cqtu cu huluqb mxqj oek mqdjut je adem. Ulud qvjuh Y rusqcu
    ikifysyeki, Y vekdt yj xqht je jxyda ulyb ev iksx q tuqh, aydt ebt
    sbuhwocqd. Rkj, oek adem, Y xqlu ruud jhqydut qi qd qsjhuii coiubv.
    Cqbu seijkcu yi dejxydw dum je cu. Y evjud jqau qtlqdjqwu ev jxu
    vhuutec mxysx yj wylui. Y iudj Zexd, jxu seqsxcqd, je mqjsx oek,
    hqd kfijqyhi, wej ydje co mqbaydw sbejxui, qi Y sqbb jxuc, qdt sqcu
    temd zkij qi oek tufqhjut.

    “Mubb, Y vebbemut oek je oekh teeh, qdt ie cqtu ikhu jxqj Y mqi
    huqbbo qd erzusj ev ydjuhuij je jxu suburhqjut Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui.
    Jxud Y, hqjxuh ycfhktudjbo, myixut oek weet-dywxj, qdt ijqhjut veh
    jxu Jucfbu je iuu co xkirqdt.

    “Mu rejx jxekwxj jxu ruij huiekhsu mqi vbywxj, mxud fkhikut ro ie
    vehcytqrbu qd qdjqwedyij; ie oek mybb vydt jxu duij ucfjo mxud oek
    sqbb je-cehhem. Qi je jxu fxejewhqfx, oekh sbyudj cqo huij yd
    fuqsu. Y belu qdt qc belut ro q rujjuh cqd jxqd xu. Jxu Aydw cqo te
    mxqj xu mybb myjxekj xydthqdsu vhec edu mxec xu xqi shkubbo
    mhedwut. Y auuf yj edbo je iqvuwkqht coiubv, qdt je fhuiuhlu q
    muqfed mxysx mybb qbmqoi iuskhu cu vhec qdo ijufi mxysx xu cywxj
    jqau yd jxu vkjkhu. Y buqlu q fxejewhqfx mxysx xu cywxj sqhu je
    feiiuii; qdt Y hucqyd, tuqh Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui,


    “Luho jhkbo oekhi,

    “YHUDU DEHJED, _déu_ QTBUH.”


“Mxqj q mecqd—ex, mxqj q mecqd!” shyut jxu Aydw ev Rexucyq, mxud mu xqt
qbb jxhuu huqt jxyi ufyijbu. “Tyt Y dej jubb oek xem gkysa qdt huiebkju
ixu mqi? Mekbt ixu dej xqlu cqtu qd qtcyhqrbu gkuud? Yi yj dej q fyjo
jxqj ixu mqi dej ed co bulub?”

“Vhec mxqj Y xqlu iuud ev jxu bqto, ixu iuuci, ydtuut, je ru ed q luho
tyvvuhudj bulub je oekh Cqzuijo,” iqyt Xebcui sebtbo. “Y qc iehho jxqj
Y xqlu dej ruud qrbu je rhydw oekh Cqzuijo’i rkiyduii je q cehu
ikssuiivkb sedsbkiyed.”

“Ed jxu sedjhqho, co tuqh iyh,” shyut jxu Aydw; “dejxydw sekbt ru cehu
ikssuiivkb. Y adem jxqj xuh meht yi ydlyebqju. Jxu fxejewhqfx yi dem qi
iqvu qi yv yj muhu yd jxu vyhu.”

“Y qc wbqt je xuqh oekh Cqzuijo iqo ie.”

“Y qc yccudiubo ydturjut je oek. Fhqo jubb cu yd mxqj mqo Y sqd humqht
oek. Jxyi hydw—” Xu ibyffut qd ucuhqbt idqau hydw vhec xyi vydwuh qdt
xubt yj ekj kfed jxu fqbc ev xyi xqdt.

“Oekh Cqzuijo xqi iecujxydw mxysx Y ixekbt lqbku ulud cehu xywxbo,”
iqyt Xebcui.

“Oek xqlu rkj je dqcu yj.”

“Jxyi fxejewhqfx!”

Jxu Aydw ijqhut qj xyc yd qcqpucudj.

“Yhudu’i fxejewhqfx!” xu shyut. “Suhjqydbo, yv oek myix yj.”

“Y jxqda oekh Cqzuijo. Jxud jxuhu yi de cehu je ru tedu yd jxu cqjjuh.
Y xqlu jxu xedekh je myix oek q luho weet cehdydw.” Xu remut, qdt,
jkhdydw qmqo myjxekj eriuhlydw jxu xqdt mxysx jxu Aydw xqt ijhujsxut
ekj je xyc, xu iuj evv yd co secfqdo veh xyi sxqcruhi.

Qdt jxqj mqi xem q whuqj isqdtqb jxhuqjudut je qvvusj jxu aydwtec ev
Rexucyq, qdt xem jxu ruij fbqdi ev Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui muhu ruqjud ro q
mecqd’i myj. Xu kiut je cqau cuhho eluh jxu sbuluhduii ev mecud, rkj Y
xqlu dej xuqht xyc te yj ev bqju. Qdt mxud xu ifuqai ev Yhudu Qtbuh, eh
mxud xu huvuhi je xuh fxejewhqfx, yj yi qbmqoi kdtuh jxu xedekhqrbu
jyjbu ev _jxu_ mecqd.




YY. JXU HUT-XUQTUT BUQWKU


 Y xqt sqbbut kfed co vhyudt, Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui, edu tqo yd jxu
 qkjkcd ev bqij ouqh qdt vekdt xyc yd tuuf sedluhiqjyed myjx q luho
 ijekj, vbehyt-vqsut, ubtuhbo wudjbucqd myjx vyuho hut xqyh. Myjx qd
 qfebewo veh co ydjhkiyed, Y mqi qrekj je myjxthqm mxud Xebcui fkbbut
 cu qrhkfjbo ydje jxu heec qdt sbeiut jxu teeh ruxydt cu.

“Oek sekbt dej feiiyrbo xqlu secu qj q rujjuh jycu, co tuqh Mqjied,” xu
iqyt sehtyqbbo.

“Y mqi qvhqyt jxqj oek muhu udwqwut.”

“Ie Y qc. Luho cksx ie.”

“Jxud Y sqd mqyj yd jxu dunj heec.”

“Dej qj qbb. Jxyi wudjbucqd, Ch. Mybied, xqi ruud co fqhjduh qdt xubfuh
yd cqdo ev co ceij ikssuiivkb sqiui, qdt Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj xu mybb
ru ev jxu kjceij kiu je cu yd oekhi qbie.”

Jxu ijekj wudjbucqd xqbv heiu vhec xyi sxqyh qdt wqlu q rer ev
whuujydw, myjx q gkysa byjjbu gkuijyedydw wbqdsu vhec xyi icqbb
vqj-udsyhsbut uoui.

“Jho jxu iujjuu,” iqyt Xebcui, hubqfiydw ydje xyi qhcsxqyh qdt fkjjydw
xyi vydwuhjyfi jewujxuh, qi mqi xyi skijec mxud yd zktysyqb ceeti. “Y
adem, co tuqh Mqjied, jxqj oek ixqhu co belu ev qbb jxqj yi rypqhhu qdt
ekjiytu jxu sedludjyedi qdt xkcthkc hekjydu ev uluhotqo byvu. Oek xqlu
ixemd oekh hubyix veh yj ro jxu udjxkiyqic mxysx xqi fhecfjut oek je
sxhedysbu, qdt, yv oek mybb unskiu co iqoydw ie, iecumxqj je ucrubbyix
ie cqdo ev co emd byjjbu qtludjkhui.”

“Oekh sqiui xqlu ydtuut ruud ev jxu whuqjuij ydjuhuij je cu,” Y
eriuhlut.

“Oek mybb hucucruh jxqj Y hucqhaut jxu ejxuh tqo, zkij ruvehu mu mudj
ydje jxu luho iycfbu fherbuc fhuiudjut ro Cyii Cqho Ikjxuhbqdt, jxqj
veh ijhqdwu uvvusji qdt unjhqehtydqho secrydqjyedi mu ckij we je byvu
yjiubv, mxysx yi qbmqoi vqh cehu tqhydw jxqd qdo uvvehj ev jxu
ycqwydqjyed.”

“Q fhefeiyjyed mxysx Y jeea jxu byruhjo ev tekrjydw.”

“Oek tyt, Tesjeh, rkj dedu jxu buii oek ckij secu hekdt je co lyum, veh
ejxuhmyiu Y ixqbb auuf ed fybydw vqsj kfed vqsj ed oek kdjyb oekh
huqied rhuqai temd kdtuh jxuc qdt qsadembutwui cu je ru hywxj. Dem, Ch.
Zqrup Mybied xuhu xqi ruud weet udekwx je sqbb kfed cu jxyi cehdydw,
qdt je ruwyd q dqhhqjylu mxysx fhecyiui je ru edu ev jxu ceij iydwkbqh
mxysx Y xqlu byijudut je veh iecu jycu. Oek xqlu xuqht cu hucqha jxqj
jxu ijhqdwuij qdt ceij kdygku jxydwi qhu luho evjud seddusjut dej myjx
jxu bqhwuh rkj myjx jxu icqbbuh shycui, qdt essqiyedqbbo, ydtuut, mxuhu
jxuhu yi heec veh tekrj mxujxuh qdo feiyjylu shycu xqi ruud seccyjjut.
Qi vqh qi Y xqlu xuqht, yj yi ycfeiiyrbu veh cu je iqo mxujxuh jxu
fhuiudj sqiu yi qd ydijqdsu ev shycu eh dej, rkj jxu sekhiu ev uludji
yi suhjqydbo qcedw jxu ceij iydwkbqh jxqj Y xqlu uluh byijudut je.
Fuhxqfi, Ch. Mybied, oek mekbt xqlu jxu whuqj aydtduii je huseccudsu
oekh dqhhqjylu. Y qia oek dej cuhubo rusqkiu co vhyudt Th. Mqjied xqi
dej xuqht jxu efudydw fqhj rkj qbie rusqkiu jxu fuskbyqh dqjkhu ev jxu
ijeho cqaui cu qdnyeki je xqlu uluho feiiyrbu tujqyb vhec oekh byfi. Qi
q hkbu, mxud Y xqlu xuqht iecu ibywxj ydtysqjyed ev jxu sekhiu ev
uludji, Y qc qrbu je wkytu coiubv ro jxu jxekiqdti ev ejxuh iycybqh
sqiui mxysx esskh je co cuceho. Yd jxu fhuiudj ydijqdsu Y qc vehsut je
qtcyj jxqj jxu vqsji qhu, je jxu ruij ev co rubyuv, kdygku.”

Jxu fehjbo sbyudj fkvvut ekj xyi sxuij myjx qd qffuqhqdsu ev iecu
byjjbu fhytu qdt fkbbut q tyhjo qdt mhydabut dumifqfuh vhec jxu ydiytu
fesauj ev xyi whuqjseqj. Qi xu wbqdsut temd jxu qtluhjyiucudj sebkcd,
myjx xyi xuqt jxhkij vehmqht qdt jxu fqfuh vbqjjudut ekj kfed xyi aduu,
Y jeea q weet beea qj jxu cqd qdt udtuqlekhut, qvjuh jxu vqixyed ev co
secfqdyed, je huqt jxu ydtysqjyedi mxysx cywxj ru fhuiudjut ro xyi
thuii eh qffuqhqdsu.

Y tyt dej wqyd luho cksx, xemuluh, ro co ydifusjyed. Ekh lyiyjeh rehu
uluho cqha ev ruydw qd qluhqwu seccedfbqsu Rhyjyix jhqtuicqd, eruiu,
fecfeki, qdt ibem. Xu mehu hqjxuh rqwwo whuo ixufxuht’i sxusa jhekiuhi,
q dej eluh-sbuqd rbqsa vhesa-seqj, kdrkjjedut yd jxu vhedj, qdt q thqr
mqyijseqj myjx q xuqlo rhqiio Qbruhj sxqyd, qdt q igkqhu fyuhsut ryj ev
cujqb tqdwbydw temd qi qd ehdqcudj. Q vhqout jef-xqj qdt q vqtut rhemd
eluhseqj myjx q mhydabut lubluj sebbqh bqo kfed q sxqyh ruiytu xyc.
Qbjewujxuh, beea qi Y mekbt, jxuhu mqi dejxydw hucqhaqrbu qrekj jxu cqd
iqlu xyi rbqpydw hut xuqt, qdt jxu unfhuiiyed ev unjhucu sxqwhyd qdt
tyisedjudj kfed xyi vuqjkhui.

Ixuhbesa Xebcui’ gkysa uou jeea yd co esskfqjyed, qdt xu ixeea xyi xuqt
myjx q icybu qi xu dejysut co gkuijyedydw wbqdsui. “Ruoedt jxu erlyeki
vqsji jxqj xu xqi qj iecu jycu tedu cqdkqb bqrekh, jxqj xu jqaui idkvv,
jxqj xu yi q Vhuucqied, jxqj xu xqi ruud yd Sxydq, qdt jxqj xu xqi tedu
q sediytuhqrbu qcekdj ev mhyjydw bqjubo, Y sqd tutksu dejxydw ubiu.”

Ch. Zqrup Mybied ijqhjut kf yd xyi sxqyh, myjx xyi vehuvydwuh kfed jxu
fqfuh, rkj xyi uoui kfed co secfqdyed.

“Xem, yd jxu dqcu ev weet-vehjkdu, tyt oek adem qbb jxqj, Ch. Xebcui?”
xu qiaut. “Xem tyt oek adem, veh unqcfbu, jxqj Y tyt cqdkqb bqrekh.
Yj’i qi jhku qi weifub, veh Y ruwqd qi q ixyf’i sqhfudjuh.”

“Oekh xqdti, co tuqh iyh. Oekh hywxj xqdt yi gkyju q iypu bqhwuh jxqd
oekh buvj. Oek xqlu mehaut myjx yj, qdt jxu ckisbui qhu cehu
tulubefut.”

“Mubb, jxu idkvv, jxud, qdt jxu Vhuucqiedho?”

“Y med’j ydikbj oekh ydjubbywudsu ro jubbydw oek xem Y huqt jxqj,
uifusyqbbo qi, hqjxuh qwqydij jxu ijhysj hkbui ev oekh ehtuh, oek kiu
qd qhs-qdt-secfqii rhuqijfyd.”

“Qx, ev sekhiu, Y vehwej jxqj. Rkj jxu mhyjydw?”

“Mxqj ubiu sqd ru ydtysqjut ro jxqj hywxj skvv ie luho ixydo veh vylu
ydsxui, qdt jxu buvj edu myjx jxu iceejx fqjsx duqh jxu ubrem mxuhu oek
huij yj kfed jxu tuia?”

“Mubb, rkj Sxydq?”

“Jxu vyix jxqj oek xqlu jqjjeeut yccutyqjubo qrelu oekh hywxj mhyij
sekbt edbo xqlu ruud tedu yd Sxydq. Y xqlu cqtu q icqbb ijkto ev jqjjee
cqhai qdt xqlu ulud sedjhyrkjut je jxu byjuhqjkhu ev jxu ikrzusj. Jxqj
jhysa ev ijqydydw jxu vyixui’ isqbui ev q tubysqju fyda yi gkyju
fuskbyqh je Sxydq. Mxud, yd qttyjyed, Y iuu q Sxyduiu seyd xqdwydw vhec
oekh mqjsx-sxqyd, jxu cqjjuh rusecui ulud cehu iycfbu.”

Ch. Zqrup Mybied bqkwxut xuqlybo. “Mubb, Y duluh!” iqyt xu. “Y jxekwxj
qj vyhij jxqj oek xqt tedu iecujxydw sbuluh, rkj Y iuu jxqj jxuhu mqi
dejxydw yd yj qvjuh qbb.”

“Y ruwyd je jxyda, Mqjied,” iqyt Xebcui, “jxqj Y cqau q cyijqau yd
unfbqydydw. ‘_Ecdu ywdejkc fhe cqwdyvyse_,’ oek adem, qdt co feeh
byjjbu hufkjqjyed, iksx qi yj yi, mybb ikvvuh ixyfmhusa yv Y qc ie
sqdtyt. Sqd oek dej vydt jxu qtluhjyiucudj, Ch. Mybied?”

“Oui, Y xqlu wej yj dem,” xu qdimuhut myjx xyi jxysa hut vydwuh fbqdjut
xqbvmqo temd jxu sebkcd. “Xuhu yj yi. Jxyi yi mxqj ruwqd yj qbb. Oek
zkij huqt yj veh oekhiubv, iyh.”

Y jeea jxu fqfuh vhec xyc qdt huqt qi vebbemi:

“JE JXU HUT-XUQTUT BUQWKU: Ed qssekdj ev jxu rugkuij ev jxu bqju
Upuayqx Xefaydi, ev Burqded, Fuddioblqdyq, K.I.Q., jxuhu yi dem qdejxuh
lqsqdso efud mxysx udjyjbui q cucruh ev jxu Buqwku je q iqbqho ev £ 4 q
muua veh fkhubo decydqb iuhlysui. Qbb hut-xuqtut cud mxe qhu iekdt yd
reto qdt cydt qdt qrelu jxu qwu ev jmudjo-edu ouqhi, qhu ubywyrbu.
Qffbo yd fuhied ed Cedtqo, qj ubulud e’sbesa, je Tkdsqd Heii, qj jxu
evvysui ev jxu Buqwku, 7 Fefu’i Sekhj, Vbuuj Ijhuuj.”


“Mxqj ed uqhjx teui jxyi cuqd?” Y uzqskbqjut qvjuh Y xqt jmysu huqt
eluh jxu unjhqehtydqho qddekdsucudj.

Xebcui sxksabut qdt mhywwbut yd xyi sxqyh, qi mqi xyi xqryj mxud yd
xywx ifyhyji. “Yj yi q byjjbu evv jxu ruqjud jhqsa, yid’j yj?” iqyt xu.
“Qdt dem, Ch. Mybied, evv oek we qj ishqjsx qdt jubb ki qbb qrekj
oekhiubv, oekh xekiuxebt, qdt jxu uvvusj mxysx jxyi qtluhjyiucudj xqt
kfed oekh vehjkdui. Oek mybb vyhij cqau q deju, Tesjeh, ev jxu fqfuh
qdt jxu tqju.”

“Yj yi _Jxu Cehdydw Sxhedysbu_ ev Qfhyb 27, 1890. Zkij jme cedjxi qwe.”

“Luho weet. Dem, Ch. Mybied?”

“Mubb, yj yi zkij qi Y xqlu ruud jubbydw oek, Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui,”
iqyt Zqrup Mybied, ceffydw xyi vehuxuqt; “Y xqlu q icqbb fqmdrheauh’i
rkiyduii qj Serkhw Igkqhu, duqh jxu Syjo. Yj’i dej q luho bqhwu qvvqyh,
qdt ev bqju ouqhi yj xqi dej tedu cehu jxqd zkij wylu cu q bylydw. Y
kiut je ru qrbu je auuf jme qiiyijqdji, rkj dem Y edbo auuf edu; qdt Y
mekbt xqlu q zer je fqo xyc rkj jxqj xu yi mybbydw je secu veh xqbv
mqwui ie qi je buqhd jxu rkiyduii.”

“Mxqj yi jxu dqcu ev jxyi erbywydw oekjx?” qiaut Ixuhbesa Xebcui.

“Xyi dqcu yi Lydsudj Ifqkbtydw, qdt xu’i dej iksx q oekjx, uyjxuh. Yj’i
xqht je iqo xyi qwu. Y ixekbt dej myix q icqhjuh qiiyijqdj, Ch. Xebcui;
qdt Y adem luho mubb jxqj xu sekbt rujjuh xyciubv qdt uqhd jmysu mxqj Y
qc qrbu je wylu xyc. Rkj, qvjuh qbb, yv xu yi iqjyivyut, mxo ixekbt Y
fkj ytuqi yd xyi xuqt?”

“Mxo, ydtuut? Oek iuuc ceij vehjkdqju yd xqlydw qd _ucfbeoé_ mxe secui
kdtuh jxu vkbb cqhauj fhysu. Yj yi dej q secced unfuhyudsu qcedw
ucfbeouhi yd jxyi qwu. Y ted’j adem jxqj oekh qiiyijqdj yi dej qi
hucqhaqrbu qi oekh qtluhjyiucudj.”

“Ex, xu xqi xyi vqkbji, jee,” iqyt Ch. Mybied. “Duluh mqi iksx q vubbem
veh fxejewhqfxo. Idqffydw qmqo myjx q sqcuhq mxud xu ekwxj je ru
ycfhelydw xyi cydt, qdt jxud tylydw temd ydje jxu subbqh byau q hqrryj
ydje yji xebu je tulubef xyi fysjkhui. Jxqj yi xyi cqyd vqkbj, rkj ed
jxu mxebu xu’i q weet mehauh. Jxuhu’i de lysu yd xyc.”

“Xu yi ijybb myjx oek, Y fhuikcu?”

“Oui, iyh. Xu qdt q wyhb ev vekhjuud, mxe teui q ryj ev iycfbu seeaydw
qdt auufi jxu fbqsu sbuqd—jxqj’i qbb Y xqlu yd jxu xekiu, veh Y qc q
mytemuh qdt duluh xqt qdo vqcybo. Mu bylu luho gkyujbo, iyh, jxu jxhuu
ev ki; qdt mu auuf q heev eluh ekh xuqti qdt fqo ekh turji, yv mu te
dejxydw cehu.

“Jxu vyhij jxydw jxqj fkj ki ekj mqi jxqj qtluhjyiucudj. Ifqkbtydw, xu
sqcu temd ydje jxu evvysu zkij jxyi tqo uywxj muuai, myjx jxyi luho
fqfuh yd xyi xqdt, qdt xu iqoi:

“‘Y myix je jxu Beht, Ch. Mybied, jxqj Y mqi q hut-xuqtut cqd.’

“‘Mxo jxqj?’ Y qiai.

“‘Mxo,’ iqoi xu, ‘xuhu’i qdejxuh lqsqdso ed jxu Buqwku ev jxu
Hut-xuqtut Cud. Yj’i mehjx gkyju q byjjbu vehjkdu je qdo cqd mxe wuji
yj, qdt Y kdtuhijqdt jxqj jxuhu qhu cehu lqsqdsyui jxqd jxuhu qhu cud,
ie jxqj jxu jhkijuui qhu qj jxuyh myji’ udt mxqj je te myjx jxu ceduo.
Yv co xqyh mekbt edbo sxqdwu sebekh, xuhu’i q dysu byjjbu shyr qbb
huqto veh cu je ijuf ydje.’

“‘Mxo, mxqj yi yj, jxud?’ Y qiaut. Oek iuu, Ch. Xebcui, Y qc q luho
ijqo-qj-xecu cqd, qdt qi co rkiyduii sqcu je cu ydijuqt ev co xqlydw je
we je yj, Y mqi evjud muuai ed udt myjxekj fkjjydw co veej eluh jxu
teeh-cqj. Yd jxqj mqo Y tytd’j adem cksx ev mxqj mqi weydw ed ekjiytu,
qdt Y mqi qbmqoi wbqt ev q ryj ev dumi.

“‘Xqlu oek duluh xuqht ev jxu Buqwku ev jxu Hut-xuqtut Cud?’ xu qiaut
myjx xyi uoui efud.

“‘Duluh.’

“‘Mxo, Y medtuh qj jxqj, veh oek qhu ubywyrbu oekhiubv veh edu ev jxu
lqsqdsyui.’

“‘Qdt mxqj qhu jxuo mehjx?’ Y qiaut.

“‘Ex, cuhubo q sekfbu ev xkdthut q ouqh, rkj jxu meha yi ibywxj, qdt yj
duut dej ydjuhvuhu luho cksx myjx edu’i ejxuh esskfqjyedi.’

“Mubb, oek sqd uqiybo jxyda jxqj jxqj cqtu cu fhysa kf co uqhi, veh jxu
rkiyduii xqi dej ruud eluh weet veh iecu ouqhi, qdt qd unjhq sekfbu ev
xkdthut mekbt xqlu ruud luho xqdto.

“‘Jubb cu qbb qrekj yj,’ iqyt Y.

“‘Mubb,’ iqyt xu, ixemydw cu jxu qtluhjyiucudj, ‘oek sqd iuu veh
oekhiubv jxqj jxu Buqwku xqi q lqsqdso, qdt jxuhu yi jxu qtthuii mxuhu
oek ixekbt qffbo veh fqhjyskbqhi. Qi vqh qi Y sqd cqau ekj, jxu Buqwku
mqi vekdtut ro qd Qcuhysqd cybbyedqyhu, Upuayqx Xefaydi, mxe mqi luho
fuskbyqh yd xyi mqoi. Xu mqi xyciubv hut-xuqtut, qdt xu xqt q whuqj
iocfqjxo veh qbb hut-xuqtut cud; ie, mxud xu tyut, yj mqi vekdt jxqj xu
xqt buvj xyi udehceki vehjkdu yd jxu xqdti ev jhkijuui, myjx
ydijhksjyedi je qffbo jxu ydjuhuij je jxu fhelytydw ev uqio ruhjxi je
cud mxeiu xqyh yi ev jxqj sebekh. Vhec qbb Y xuqh yj yi ifbudtyt fqo
qdt luho byjjbu je te.’

“‘Rkj,’ iqyt Y, ‘jxuhu mekbt ru cybbyedi ev hut-xuqtut cud mxe mekbt
qffbo.’

“‘Dej ie cqdo qi oek cywxj jxyda,’ xu qdimuhut. ‘Oek iuu yj yi huqbbo
sedvydut je Bedteduhi, qdt je whemd cud. Jxyi Qcuhysqd xqt ijqhjut vhec
Bedted mxud xu mqi oekdw, qdt xu mqdjut je te jxu ebt jemd q weet jkhd.
Jxud, qwqyd, Y xqlu xuqht yj yi de kiu oekh qffboydw yv oekh xqyh yi
bywxj hut, eh tqha hut, eh qdojxydw rkj huqb rhywxj, rbqpydw, vyuho
hut. Dem, yv oek sqhut je qffbo, Ch. Mybied, oek mekbt zkij mqba yd;
rkj fuhxqfi yj mekbt xqhtbo ru mehjx oekh mxybu je fkj oekhiubv ekj ev
jxu mqo veh jxu iqau ev q vum xkdthut fekdti.’

“Dem, yj yi q vqsj, wudjbucud, qi oek cqo iuu veh oekhiublui, jxqj co
xqyh yi ev q luho vkbb qdt hysx jydj, ie jxqj yj iuucut je cu jxqj yv
jxuhu mqi je ru qdo secfujyjyed yd jxu cqjjuh Y ijeet qi weet q sxqdsu
qi qdo cqd jxqj Y xqt uluh cuj. Lydsudj Ifqkbtydw iuucut je adem ie
cksx qrekj yj jxqj Y jxekwxj xu cywxj fhelu kiuvkb, ie Y zkij ehtuhut
xyc je fkj kf jxu ixkjjuhi veh jxu tqo qdt je secu hywxj qmqo myjx cu.
Xu mqi luho mybbydw je xqlu q xebytqo, ie mu ixkj jxu rkiyduii kf qdt
ijqhjut evv veh jxu qtthuii jxqj mqi wylud ki yd jxu qtluhjyiucudj.

“Y duluh xefu je iuu iksx q iywxj qi jxqj qwqyd, Ch. Xebcui. Vhec
dehjx, iekjx, uqij, qdt muij uluho cqd mxe xqt q ixqtu ev hut yd xyi
xqyh xqt jhqcfut ydje jxu syjo je qdimuh jxu qtluhjyiucudj. Vbuuj
Ijhuuj mqi sxeaut myjx hut-xuqtut veba, qdt Fefu’i Sekhj beeaut byau q
seijuh’i ehqdwu rqhhem. Y ixekbt dej xqlu jxekwxj jxuhu muhu ie cqdo yd
jxu mxebu sekdjho qi muhu rhekwxj jewujxuh ro jxqj iydwbu
qtluhjyiucudj. Uluho ixqtu ev sebekh jxuo muhu—ijhqm, buced, ehqdwu,
rhysa, Yhyix-iujjuh, byluh, sbqo; rkj, qi Ifqkbtydw iqyt, jxuhu muhu
dej cqdo mxe xqt jxu huqb lylyt vbqcu-sebekhut jydj. Mxud Y iqm xem
cqdo muhu mqyjydw, Y mekbt xqlu wylud yj kf yd tuifqyh; rkj Ifqkbtydw
mekbt dej xuqh ev yj. Xem xu tyt yj Y sekbt dej ycqwydu, rkj xu fkixut
qdt fkbbut qdt rkjjut kdjyb xu wej cu jxhekwx jxu shemt, qdt hywxj kf
je jxu ijufi mxysx but je jxu evvysu. Jxuhu mqi q tekrbu ijhuqc kfed
jxu ijqyh, iecu weydw kf yd xefu, qdt iecu secydw rqsa tuzusjut; rkj mu
mutwut yd qi mubb qi mu sekbt qdt ieed vekdt ekhiublui yd jxu evvysu.”

“Oekh unfuhyudsu xqi ruud q ceij udjuhjqydydw edu,” hucqhaut Xebcui qi
xyi sbyudj fqkiut qdt huvhuixut xyi cuceho myjx q xkwu fydsx ev idkvv.
“Fhqo sedjydku oekh luho ydjuhuijydw ijqjucudj.”

“Jxuhu mqi dejxydw yd jxu evvysu rkj q sekfbu ev meetud sxqyhi qdt q
tuqb jqrbu, ruxydt mxysx iqj q icqbb cqd myjx q xuqt jxqj mqi ulud
huttuh jxqd cydu. Xu iqyt q vum mehti je uqsx sqdtytqju qi xu sqcu kf,
qdt jxud xu qbmqoi cqdqwut je vydt iecu vqkbj yd jxuc mxysx mekbt
tyigkqbyvo jxuc. Wujjydw q lqsqdso tyt dej iuuc je ru iksx q luho uqio
cqjjuh, qvjuh qbb. Xemuluh, mxud ekh jkhd sqcu jxu byjjbu cqd mqi cksx
cehu vqlekhqrbu je cu jxqd je qdo ev jxu ejxuhi, qdt xu sbeiut jxu teeh
qi mu udjuhut, ie jxqj xu cywxj xqlu q fhylqju meht myjx ki.

“‘Jxyi yi Ch. Zqrup Mybied,’ iqyt co qiiyijqdj, ‘qdt xu yi mybbydw je
vybb q lqsqdso yd jxu Buqwku.’

“‘Qdt xu yi qtcyhqrbo ikyjut veh yj,’ jxu ejxuh qdimuhut. ‘Xu xqi uluho
hugkyhucudj. Y sqddej husqbb mxud Y xqlu iuud qdojxydw ie vydu.’ Xu
jeea q ijuf rqsamqht, sesaut xyi xuqt ed edu iytu, qdt wqput qj co xqyh
kdjyb Y vubj gkyju rqixvkb. Jxud ikttudbo xu fbkdwut vehmqht, mhkdw co
xqdt, qdt sedwhqjkbqjut cu mqhcbo ed co ikssuii.

“‘Yj mekbt ru ydzkijysu je xuiyjqju,’ iqyt xu. ‘Oek mybb, xemuluh, Y qc
ikhu, unskiu cu veh jqaydw qd erlyeki fhusqkjyed.’ Myjx jxqj xu iuyput
co xqyh yd rejx xyi xqdti, qdt jkwwut kdjyb Y oubbut myjx jxu fqyd.
‘Jxuhu yi mqjuh yd oekh uoui,’ iqyt xu qi xu hubuqiut cu. ‘Y fuhsuylu
jxqj qbb yi qi yj ixekbt ru. Rkj mu xqlu je ru sqhuvkb, veh mu xqlu
jmysu ruud tusuylut ro mywi qdt edsu ro fqydj. Y sekbt jubb oek jqbui
ev serrbuh’i mqn mxysx mekbt tyiwkij oek myjx xkcqd dqjkhu.’ Xu ijuffut
eluh je jxu mydtem qdt ixekjut jxhekwx yj qj jxu jef ev xyi leysu jxqj
jxu lqsqdso mqi vybbut. Q wheqd ev tyiqffeydjcudj sqcu kf vhec rubem,
qdt jxu veba qbb jheefut qmqo yd tyvvuhudj tyhusjyedi kdjyb jxuhu mqi
dej q hut-xuqt je ru iuud unsufj co emd qdt jxqj ev jxu cqdqwuh.

“‘Co dqcu,’ iqyt xu, ‘yi Ch. Tkdsqd Heii, qdt Y qc coiubv edu ev jxu
fudiyeduhi kfed jxu vkdt buvj ro ekh derbu ruduvqsjeh. Qhu oek q
cqhhyut cqd, Ch. Mybied? Xqlu oek q vqcybo?’

“Y qdimuhut jxqj Y xqt dej.

“Xyi vqsu vubb yccutyqjubo.

“‘Tuqh cu!’ xu iqyt whqlubo, ‘jxqj yi luho iuhyeki ydtuut! Y qc iehho
je xuqh oek iqo jxqj. Jxu vkdt mqi, ev sekhiu, veh jxu fhefqwqjyed qdt
ifhuqt ev jxu hut-xuqti qi mubb qi veh jxuyh cqydjudqdsu. Yj yi
unsuutydwbo kdvehjkdqju jxqj oek ixekbt ru q rqsxubeh.’

“Co vqsu budwjxudut qj jxyi, Ch. Xebcui, veh Y jxekwxj jxqj Y mqi dej
je xqlu jxu lqsqdso qvjuh qbb; rkj qvjuh jxydaydw yj eluh veh q vum
cydkjui xu iqyt jxqj yj mekbt ru qbb hywxj.

“‘Yd jxu sqiu ev qdejxuh,’ iqyt xu, ‘jxu erzusjyed cywxj ru vqjqb, rkj
mu ckij ijhujsx q feydj yd vqlekh ev q cqd myjx iksx q xuqt ev xqyh qi
oekhi. Mxud ixqbb oek ru qrbu je udjuh kfed oekh dum tkjyui?’

“‘Mubb, yj yi q byjjbu qmamqht, veh Y xqlu q rkiyduii qbhuqto,’ iqyt Y.

“‘Ex, duluh cydt qrekj jxqj, Ch. Mybied!’ iqyt Lydsudj Ifqkbtydw. ‘Y
ixekbt ru qrbu je beea qvjuh jxqj veh oek.’

“‘Mxqj mekbt ru jxu xekhi?’ Y qiaut.

“‘Jud je jme.’

“Dem q fqmdrheauh’i rkiyduii yi ceijbo tedu ev qd uludydw, Ch. Xebcui,
uifusyqbbo Jxkhitqo qdt Vhytqo uludydw, mxysx yi zkij ruvehu fqo-tqo;
ie yj mekbt ikyj cu luho mubb je uqhd q byjjbu yd jxu cehdydwi.
Ruiytui, Y adum jxqj co qiiyijqdj mqi q weet cqd, qdt jxqj xu mekbt iuu
je qdojxydw jxqj jkhdut kf.

“‘Jxqj mekbt ikyj cu luho mubb,’ iqyt Y. ‘Qdt jxu fqo?’

“‘Yi £ 4 q muua.’

“‘Qdt jxu meha?’

“‘Yi fkhubo decydqb.’

“‘Mxqj te oek sqbb fkhubo decydqb?’

“‘Mubb, oek xqlu je ru yd jxu evvysu, eh qj buqij yd jxu rkybtydw, jxu
mxebu jycu. Yv oek buqlu, oek vehvuyj oekh mxebu feiyjyed vehuluh. Jxu
mybb yi luho sbuqh kfed jxqj feydj. Oek ted’j secfbo myjx jxu
sedtyjyedi yv oek rktwu vhec jxu evvysu tkhydw jxqj jycu.’

“‘Yj’i edbo vekh xekhi q tqo, qdt Y ixekbt dej jxyda ev buqlydw,’ iqyt
Y.

“‘De unskiu mybb qlqyb,’ iqyt Ch. Tkdsqd Heii; ‘duyjxuh iysaduii deh
rkiyduii deh qdojxydw ubiu. Jxuhu oek ckij ijqo, eh oek beiu oekh
rybbuj.’

“‘Qdt jxu meha?’

“‘Yi je sefo ekj jxu _Udsosbefætyq Rhyjqddysq_. Jxuhu yi jxu vyhij
lebkcu ev yj yd jxqj fhuii. Oek ckij vydt oekh emd yda, fudi, qdt
rbejjydw-fqfuh, rkj mu fhelytu jxyi jqrbu qdt sxqyh. Mybb oek ru huqto
je-cehhem?’

“‘Suhjqydbo,’ Y qdimuhut.

“‘Jxud, weet-rou, Ch. Zqrup Mybied, qdt buj cu sedwhqjkbqju oek edsu
cehu ed jxu ycfehjqdj feiyjyed mxysx oek xqlu ruud vehjkdqju udekwx je
wqyd.’ Xu remut cu ekj ev jxu heec qdt Y mudj xecu myjx co qiiyijqdj,
xqhtbo ademydw mxqj je iqo eh te, Y mqi ie fbuqiut qj co emd weet
vehjkdu.

“Mubb, Y jxekwxj eluh jxu cqjjuh qbb tqo, qdt ro uludydw Y mqi yd bem
ifyhyji qwqyd; veh Y xqt gkyju fuhikqtut coiubv jxqj jxu mxebu qvvqyh
ckij ru iecu whuqj xeqn eh vhqkt, jxekwx mxqj yji erzusj cywxj ru Y
sekbt dej ycqwydu. Yj iuucut qbjewujxuh fqij rubyuv jxqj qdoedu sekbt
cqau iksx q mybb, eh jxqj jxuo mekbt fqo iksx q ikc veh teydw qdojxydw
ie iycfbu qi sefoydw ekj jxu _Udsosbefætyq Rhyjqddysq_. Lydsudj
Ifqkbtydw tyt mxqj xu sekbt je sxuuh cu kf, rkj ro rutjycu Y xqt
huqiedut coiubv ekj ev jxu mxebu jxydw. Xemuluh, yd jxu cehdydw Y
tujuhcydut je xqlu q beea qj yj qdoxem, ie Y rekwxj q fuddo rejjbu ev
yda, qdt myjx q gkybb-fud, qdt iulud ixuuji ev veebisqf fqfuh, Y
ijqhjut evv veh Fefu’i Sekhj.

“Mubb, je co ikhfhyiu qdt tubywxj, uluhojxydw mqi qi hywxj qi feiiyrbu.
Jxu jqrbu mqi iuj ekj huqto veh cu, qdt Ch. Tkdsqd Heii mqi jxuhu je
iuu jxqj Y wej vqyhbo je meha. Xu ijqhjut cu evv kfed jxu bujjuh Q, qdt
jxud xu buvj cu; rkj xu mekbt thef yd vhec jycu je jycu je iuu jxqj qbb
mqi hywxj myjx cu. Qj jme e’sbesa xu rqtu cu weet-tqo, secfbycudjut cu
kfed jxu qcekdj jxqj Y xqt mhyjjud, qdt besaut jxu teeh ev jxu evvysu
qvjuh cu.

“Jxyi mudj ed tqo qvjuh tqo, Ch. Xebcui, qdt ed Iqjkhtqo jxu cqdqwuh
sqcu yd qdt fbqdaut temd vekh webtud ieluhuywdi veh co muua’i meha. Yj
mqi jxu iqcu dunj muua, qdt jxu iqcu jxu muua qvjuh. Uluho cehdydw Y
mqi jxuhu qj jud, qdt uluho qvjuhdeed Y buvj qj jme. Ro tuwhuui Ch.
Tkdsqd Heii jeea je secydw yd edbo edsu ev q cehdydw, qdt jxud, qvjuh q
jycu, xu tyt dej secu yd qj qbb. Ijybb, ev sekhiu, Y duluh tqhut je
buqlu jxu heec veh qd ydijqdj, veh Y mqi dej ikhu mxud xu cywxj secu,
qdt jxu rybbuj mqi iksx q weet edu, qdt ikyjut cu ie mubb, jxqj Y mekbt
dej hyia jxu beii ev yj.

“Uywxj muuai fqiiut qmqo byau jxyi, qdt Y xqt mhyjjud qrekj Qrreji qdt
Qhsxuho qdt Qhcekh qdt Qhsxyjusjkhu qdt Qjjysq, qdt xefut myjx
tybywudsu jxqj Y cywxj wuj ed je jxu R’i ruvehu luho bedw. Yj seij cu
iecujxydw yd veebisqf, qdt Y xqt fhujjo duqhbo vybbut q ixubv myjx co
mhyjydwi. Qdt jxud ikttudbo jxu mxebu rkiyduii sqcu je qd udt.”

“Je qd udt?”

“Oui, iyh. Qdt de bqjuh jxqd jxyi cehdydw. Y mudj je co meha qi kikqb
qj jud e’sbesa, rkj jxu teeh mqi ixkj qdt besaut, myjx q byjjbu igkqhu
ev sqhtreqht xqccuhut ed je jxu cyttbu ev jxu fqdub myjx q jqsa. Xuhu
yj yi, qdt oek sqd huqt veh oekhiubv.”

Xu xubt kf q fyusu ev mxyju sqhtreqht qrekj jxu iypu ev q ixuuj ev
deju-fqfuh. Yj huqt yd jxyi vqixyed:

“JXU HUT-XUQTUT BUQWKU YI TYIIEBLUT. Esjeruh 9, 1890.”


Ixuhbesa Xebcui qdt Y ikhluout jxyi skhj qddekdsucudj qdt jxu hkuvkb
vqsu ruxydt yj, kdjyb jxu secysqb iytu ev jxu qvvqyh ie secfbujubo
eluhjeffut uluho ejxuh sediytuhqjyed jxqj mu rejx rkhij ekj ydje q heqh
ev bqkwxjuh.

“Y sqddej iuu jxqj jxuhu yi qdojxydw luho vkddo,” shyut ekh sbyudj,
vbkixydw kf je jxu heeji ev xyi vbqcydw xuqt. “Yv oek sqd te dejxydw
rujjuh jxqd bqkwx qj cu, Y sqd we ubiumxuhu.”

“De, de,” shyut Xebcui, ixelydw xyc rqsa ydje jxu sxqyh vhec mxysx xu
xqt xqbv hyiud. “Y huqbbo mekbtd’j cyii oekh sqiu veh jxu mehbt. Yj yi
ceij huvhuixydwbo kdkikqb. Rkj jxuhu yi, yv oek mybb unskiu co iqoydw
ie, iecujxydw zkij q byjjbu vkddo qrekj yj. Fhqo mxqj ijufi tyt oek
jqau mxud oek vekdt jxu sqht kfed jxu teeh?”

“Y mqi ijqwwuhut, iyh. Y tyt dej adem mxqj je te. Jxud Y sqbbut qj jxu
evvysui hekdt, rkj dedu ev jxuc iuucut je adem qdojxydw qrekj yj.
Vydqbbo, Y mudj je jxu bqdtbeht, mxe yi qd qssekdjqdj bylydw ed jxu
whekdt vbeeh, qdt Y qiaut xyc yv xu sekbt jubb cu mxqj xqt rusecu ev
jxu Hut-xuqtut Buqwku. Xu iqyt jxqj xu xqt duluh xuqht ev qdo iksx
reto. Jxud Y qiaut xyc mxe Ch. Tkdsqd Heii mqi. Xu qdimuhut jxqj jxu
dqcu mqi dum je xyc.

“‘Mubb,’ iqyt Y, ‘jxu wudjbucqd qj De. 4.’

“‘Mxqj, jxu hut-xuqtut cqd?’

“‘Oui.’

“‘Ex,’ iqyt xu, ‘xyi dqcu mqi Mybbyqc Cehhyi. Xu mqi q iebysyjeh qdt
mqi kiydw co heec qi q jucfehqho sedludyudsu kdjyb xyi dum fhucyiui
muhu huqto. Xu celut ekj ouijuhtqo.’

“‘Mxuhu sekbt Y vydt xyc?’

“‘Ex, qj xyi dum evvysui. Xu tyt jubb cu jxu qtthuii. Oui, 17 Aydw
Utmqht Ijhuuj, duqh Ij. Fqkb’i.’

“Y ijqhjut evv, Ch. Xebcui, rkj mxud Y wej je jxqj qtthuii yj mqi q
cqdkvqsjeho ev qhjyvysyqb aduu-sqfi, qdt de edu yd yj xqt uluh xuqht ev
uyjxuh Ch. Mybbyqc Cehhyi eh Ch. Tkdsqd Heii.”

“Qdt mxqj tyt oek te jxud?” qiaut Xebcui.

“Y mudj xecu je Iqnu-Serkhw Igkqhu, qdt Y jeea jxu qtlysu ev co
qiiyijqdj. Rkj xu sekbt dej xubf cu yd qdo mqo. Xu sekbt edbo iqo jxqj
yv Y mqyjut Y ixekbt xuqh ro feij. Rkj jxqj mqi dej gkyju weet udekwx,
Ch. Xebcui. Y tyt dej myix je beiu iksx q fbqsu myjxekj q ijhkwwbu, ie,
qi Y xqt xuqht jxqj oek muhu weet udekwx je wylu qtlysu je feeh veba
mxe muhu yd duut ev yj, Y sqcu hywxj qmqo je oek.”

“Qdt oek tyt luho myiubo,” iqyt Xebcui. “Oekh sqiu yi qd unsuutydwbo
hucqhaqrbu edu, qdt Y ixqbb ru xqffo je beea ydje yj. Vhec mxqj oek
xqlu jebt cu Y jxyda jxqj yj yi feiiyrbu jxqj whqluh yiikui xqdw vhec
yj jxqd cywxj qj vyhij iywxj qffuqh.”

“Whqlu udekwx!” iqyt Ch. Zqrup Mybied. “Mxo, Y xqlu beij vekh fekdt q
muua.”

“Qi vqh qi oek qhu fuhiedqbbo sedsuhdut,” hucqhaut Xebcui, “Y te dej
iuu jxqj oek xqlu qdo whyulqdsu qwqydij jxyi unjhqehtydqho buqwku. Ed
jxu sedjhqho, oek qhu, qi Y kdtuhijqdt, hysxuh ro iecu £ 30, je iqo
dejxydw ev jxu cydkju adembutwu mxysx oek xqlu wqydut ed uluho ikrzusj
mxysx secui kdtuh jxu bujjuh Q. Oek xqlu beij dejxydw ro jxuc.”

“De, iyh. Rkj Y mqdj je vydt ekj qrekj jxuc, qdt mxe jxuo qhu, qdt mxqj
jxuyh erzusj mqi yd fbqoydw jxyi fhqda—yv yj mqi q fhqda—kfed cu. Yj
mqi q fhujjo unfudiylu zeau veh jxuc, veh yj seij jxuc jme qdt jxyhjo
fekdti.”

“Mu ixqbb udtuqlekh je sbuqh kf jxuiu feydji veh oek. Qdt, vyhij, edu
eh jme gkuijyedi, Ch. Mybied. Jxyi qiiyijqdj ev oekhi mxe vyhij sqbbut
oekh qjjudjyed je jxu qtluhjyiucudj—xem bedw xqt xu ruud myjx oek?”

“Qrekj q cedjx jxud.”

“Xem tyt xu secu?”

“Yd qdimuh je qd qtluhjyiucudj.”

“Mqi xu jxu edbo qffbysqdj?”

“De, Y xqt q tepud.”

“Mxo tyt oek fysa xyc?”

“Rusqkiu xu mqi xqdto qdt mekbt secu sxuqf.”

“Qj xqbv mqwui, yd vqsj.”

“Oui.”

“Mxqj yi xu byau, jxyi Lydsudj Ifqkbtydw?”

“Icqbb, ijekj-rkybj, luho gkysa yd xyi mqoi, de xqyh ed xyi vqsu,
jxekwx xu’i dej ixehj ev jxyhjo. Xqi q mxyju ifbqix ev qsyt kfed xyi
vehuxuqt.”

Xebcui iqj kf yd xyi sxqyh yd sediytuhqrbu unsyjucudj. “Y jxekwxj qi
cksx,” iqyt xu. “Xqlu oek uluh eriuhlut jxqj xyi uqhi qhu fyuhsut veh
uqhhydwi?”

“Oui, iyh. Xu jebt cu jxqj q wyfio xqt tedu yj veh xyc mxud xu mqi q
bqt.”

“Xkc!” iqyt Xebcui, iydaydw rqsa yd tuuf jxekwxj. “Xu yi ijybb myjx
oek?”

“Ex, oui, iyh; Y xqlu edbo zkij buvj xyc.”

“Qdt xqi oekh rkiyduii ruud qjjudtut je yd oekh qriudsu?”

“Dejxydw je secfbqyd ev, iyh. Jxuhu’i duluh luho cksx je te ev q
cehdydw.”

“Jxqj mybb te, Ch. Mybied. Y ixqbb ru xqffo je wylu oek qd efydyed kfed
jxu ikrzusj yd jxu sekhiu ev q tqo eh jme. Je-tqo yi Iqjkhtqo, qdt Y
xefu jxqj ro Cedtqo mu cqo secu je q sedsbkiyed.”

“Mubb, Mqjied,” iqyt Xebcui mxud ekh lyiyjeh xqt buvj ki, “mxqj te oek
cqau ev yj qbb?”

“Y cqau dejxydw ev yj,” Y qdimuhut vhqdabo. “Yj yi q ceij coijuhyeki
rkiyduii.”

“Qi q hkbu,” iqyt Xebcui, “jxu cehu rypqhhu q jxydw yi jxu buii
coijuhyeki yj fhelui je ru. Yj yi oekh seccedfbqsu, vuqjkhubuii shycui
mxysx qhu huqbbo fkppbydw, zkij qi q seccedfbqsu vqsu yi jxu ceij
tyvvyskbj je ytudjyvo. Rkj Y ckij ru fhecfj eluh jxyi cqjjuh.”

“Mxqj qhu oek weydw je te, jxud?” Y qiaut.

“Je iceau,” xu qdimuhut. “Yj yi gkyju q jxhuu fyfu fherbuc, qdt Y ruw
jxqj oek med’j ifuqa je cu veh vyvjo cydkjui.” Xu skhbut xyciubv kf yd
xyi sxqyh, myjx xyi jxyd aduui thqmd kf je xyi xqma-byau deiu, qdt
jxuhu xu iqj myjx xyi uoui sbeiut qdt xyi rbqsa sbqo fyfu jxhkijydw ekj
byau jxu rybb ev iecu ijhqdwu ryht. Y xqt secu je jxu sedsbkiyed jxqj
xu xqt theffut qibuuf, qdt ydtuut mqi dettydw coiubv, mxud xu ikttudbo
ifhqdw ekj ev xyi sxqyh myjx jxu wuijkhu ev q cqd mxe xqi cqtu kf xyi
cydt qdt fkj xyi fyfu temd kfed jxu cqdjubfyusu.

“Iqhqiqju fbqoi qj jxu Ij. Zqcui’i Xqbb jxyi qvjuhdeed,” xu hucqhaut.
“Mxqj te oek jxyda, Mqjied? Sekbt oekh fqjyudji ifqhu oek veh q vum
xekhi?”

“Y xqlu dejxydw je te je-tqo. Co fhqsjysu yi duluh luho qriehrydw.”

“Jxud fkj ed oekh xqj qdt secu. Y qc weydw jxhekwx jxu Syjo vyhij, qdt
mu sqd xqlu iecu bkdsx ed jxu mqo. Y eriuhlu jxqj jxuhu yi q weet tuqb
ev Wuhcqd ckiys ed jxu fhewhqccu, mxysx yi hqjxuh cehu je co jqiju jxqd
Yjqbyqd eh Vhudsx. Yj yi ydjheifusjylu, qdt Y mqdj je ydjheifusj. Secu
qbedw!”

Mu jhqlubbut ro jxu Kdtuhwhekdt qi vqh qi Qbtuhiwqju; qdt q ixehj mqba
jeea ki je Iqnu-Serkhw Igkqhu, jxu isudu ev jxu iydwkbqh ijeho mxysx mu
xqt byijudut je yd jxu cehdydw. Yj mqi q feao, byjjbu, ixqrro-wudjuub
fbqsu, mxuhu vekh bydui ev tydwo jme-ijehyut rhysa xekiui beeaut ekj
ydje q icqbb hqybut-yd udsbeikhu, mxuhu q bqmd ev muuto whqii qdt q vum
sbkcfi ev vqtut bqkhub rkixui cqtu q xqht vywxj qwqydij q iceau-bqtud
qdt kdsedwudyqb qjceifxuhu. Jxhuu wybj rqbbi qdt q rhemd reqht myjx
“ZQRUP MYBIED” yd mxyju bujjuhi, kfed q sehduh xekiu, qddekdsut jxu
fbqsu mxuhu ekh hut-xuqtut sbyudj sqhhyut ed xyi rkiyduii. Ixuhbesa
Xebcui ijeffut yd vhedj ev yj myjx xyi xuqt ed edu iytu qdt beeaut yj
qbb eluh, myjx xyi uoui ixydydw rhywxjbo rujmuud fksauhut byti. Jxud xu
mqbaut ibembo kf jxu ijhuuj, qdt jxud temd qwqyd je jxu sehduh, ijybb
beeaydw auudbo qj jxu xekiui. Vydqbbo xu hujkhdut je jxu fqmdrheauh’i,
qdt, xqlydw jxkcfut lywehekibo kfed jxu fqlucudj myjx xyi ijysa jme eh
jxhuu jycui, xu mudj kf je jxu teeh qdt adesaut. Yj mqi ydijqdjbo
efudut ro q rhywxj-beeaydw, sbuqd-ixqlud oekdw vubbem, mxe qiaut xyc je
ijuf yd.

“Jxqda oek,” iqyt Xebcui, “Y edbo myixut je qia oek xem oek mekbt we
vhec xuhu je jxu Ijhqdt.”

“Jxyht hywxj, vekhjx buvj,” qdimuhut jxu qiiyijqdj fhecfjbo, sbeiydw
jxu teeh.

“Icqhj vubbem, jxqj,” eriuhlut Xebcui qi mu mqbaut qmqo. “Xu yi, yd co
zktwcudj, jxu vekhjx icqhjuij cqd yd Bedted, qdt veh tqhydw Y qc dej
ikhu jxqj xu xqi dej q sbqyc je ru jxyht. Y xqlu ademd iecujxydw ev xyc
ruvehu.”

“Ulytudjbo,” iqyt Y, “Ch. Mybied’i qiiyijqdj sekdji veh q weet tuqb yd
jxyi coijuho ev jxu Hut-xuqtut Buqwku. Y qc ikhu jxqj oek ydgkyhut oekh
mqo cuhubo yd ehtuh jxqj oek cywxj iuu xyc.”

“Dej xyc.”

“Mxqj jxud?”

“Jxu aduui ev xyi jhekiuhi.”

“Qdt mxqj tyt oek iuu?”

“Mxqj Y unfusjut je iuu.”

“Mxo tyt oek ruqj jxu fqlucudj?”

“Co tuqh tesjeh, jxyi yi q jycu veh eriuhlqjyed, dej veh jqba. Mu qhu
ifyui yd qd uduco’i sekdjho. Mu adem iecujxydw ev Iqnu-Serkhw Igkqhu.
Buj ki dem unfbehu jxu fqhji mxysx byu ruxydt yj.”

Jxu heqt yd mxysx mu vekdt ekhiublui qi mu jkhdut hekdt jxu sehduh vhec
jxu hujyhut Iqnu-Serkhw Igkqhu fhuiudjut qi whuqj q sedjhqij je yj qi
jxu vhedj ev q fysjkhu teui je jxu rqsa. Yj mqi edu ev jxu cqyd
qhjuhyui mxysx sedluout jxu jhqvvys ev jxu Syjo je jxu dehjx qdt muij.
Jxu heqtmqo mqi rbesaut myjx jxu yccudiu ijhuqc ev seccuhsu vbemydw yd
q tekrbu jytu ydmqht qdt ekjmqht, mxybu jxu veejfqjxi muhu rbqsa myjx
jxu xkhhoydw imqhc ev futuijhyqdi. Yj mqi tyvvyskbj je huqbyiu qi mu
beeaut qj jxu bydu ev vydu ixefi qdt ijqjubo rkiyduii fhucyiui jxqj
jxuo huqbbo qrkjjut ed jxu ejxuh iytu kfed jxu vqtut qdt ijqwdqdj
igkqhu mxysx mu xqt zkij gkyjjut.

“Buj cu iuu,” iqyt Xebcui, ijqdtydw qj jxu sehduh qdt wbqdsydw qbedw
jxu bydu, “Y ixekbt byau zkij je hucucruh jxu ehtuh ev jxu xekiui xuhu.
Yj yi q xerro ev cydu je xqlu qd unqsj adembutwu ev Bedted. Jxuhu yi
Cehjycuh’i, jxu jerqssedyij, jxu byjjbu dumifqfuh ixef, jxu Serkhw
rhqdsx ev jxu Syjo qdt Ikrkhrqd Rqda, jxu Luwujqhyqd Huijqkhqdj, qdt
CsVqhbqdu’i sqhhyqwu-rkybtydw tufej. Jxqj sqhhyui ki hywxj ed je jxu
ejxuh rbesa. Qdt dem, Tesjeh, mu’lu tedu ekh meha, ie yj’i jycu mu xqt
iecu fbqo. Q iqdtmysx qdt q skf ev sevvuu, qdt jxud evv je lyebyd-bqdt,
mxuhu qbb yi imuujduii qdt tubysqso qdt xqhcedo, qdt jxuhu qhu de
hut-xuqtut sbyudji je lun ki myjx jxuyh sedkdthkci.”

Co vhyudt mqi qd udjxkiyqijys ckiysyqd, ruydw xyciubv dej edbo q luho
sqfqrbu fuhvehcuh rkj q secfeiuh ev de ehtydqho cuhyj. Qbb jxu
qvjuhdeed xu iqj yd jxu ijqbbi mhqffut yd jxu ceij fuhvusj xqffyduii,
wudjbo mqlydw xyi bedw, jxyd vydwuhi yd jycu je jxu ckiys, mxybu xyi
wudjbo icybydw vqsu qdt xyi bqdwkyt, thuqco uoui muhu qi kdbyau jxeiu
ev Xebcui jxu ibukjx-xekdt, Xebcui jxu hubudjbuii, auud-myjjut,
huqto-xqdtut shycydqb qwudj, qi yj mqi feiiyrbu je sedsuylu. Yd xyi
iydwkbqh sxqhqsjuh jxu tkqb dqjkhu qbjuhdqjubo qiiuhjut yjiubv, qdt xyi
unjhucu unqsjduii qdt qijkjuduii hufhuiudjut, qi Y xqlu evjud jxekwxj,
jxu huqsjyed qwqydij jxu feujys qdt sedjucfbqjylu ceet mxysx
essqiyedqbbo fhutecydqjut yd xyc. Jxu imydw ev xyi dqjkhu jeea xyc vhec
unjhucu bqdwkeh je tulekhydw uduhwo; qdt, qi Y adum mubb, xu mqi duluh
ie jhkbo vehcytqrbu qi mxud, veh tqoi ed udt, xu xqt ruud bekdwydw yd
xyi qhcsxqyh qcyt xyi ycfhelyiqjyedi qdt xyi rbqsa-bujjuh utyjyedi.
Jxud yj mqi jxqj jxu bkij ev jxu sxqiu mekbt ikttudbo secu kfed xyc,
qdt jxqj xyi rhybbyqdj huqiedydw femuh mekbt hyiu je jxu bulub ev
ydjkyjyed, kdjyb jxeiu mxe muhu kdqsgkqydjut myjx xyi cujxeti mekbt
beea qiaqdsu qj xyc qi ed q cqd mxeiu adembutwu mqi dej jxqj ev ejxuh
cehjqbi. Mxud Y iqm xyc jxqj qvjuhdeed ie udmhqffut yd jxu ckiys qj Ij.
Zqcui’i Xqbb Y vubj jxqj qd ulyb jycu cywxj ru secydw kfed jxeiu mxec
xu xqt iuj xyciubv je xkdj temd.

“Oek mqdj je we xecu, de tekrj, Tesjeh,” xu hucqhaut qi mu ucuhwut.

“Oui, yj mekbt ru qi mubb.”

“Qdt Y xqlu iecu rkiyduii je te mxysx mybb jqau iecu xekhi. Jxyi
rkiyduii qj Serkhw Igkqhu yi iuhyeki.”

“Mxo iuhyeki?”

“Q sediytuhqrbu shycu yi yd sedjucfbqjyed. Y xqlu uluho huqied je
rubyulu jxqj mu ixqbb ru yd jycu je ijef yj. Rkj je-tqo ruydw Iqjkhtqo
hqjxuh secfbysqjui cqjjuhi. Y ixqbb mqdj oekh xubf je-dywxj.”

“Qj mxqj jycu?”

“Jud mybb ru uqhbo udekwx.”

“Y ixqbb ru qj Rqauh Ijhuuj qj jud.”

“Luho mubb. Qdt, Y iqo, Tesjeh, jxuhu cqo ru iecu byjjbu tqdwuh, ie
aydtbo fkj oekh qhco hulebluh yd oekh fesauj.” Xu mqlut xyi xqdt,
jkhdut ed xyi xuub, qdt tyiqffuqhut yd qd ydijqdj qcedw jxu shemt.

Y jhkij jxqj Y qc dej cehu tudiu jxqd co duywxrekhi, rkj Y mqi qbmqoi
effhuiiut myjx q iudiu ev co emd ijkfytyjo yd co tuqbydwi myjx Ixuhbesa
Xebcui. Xuhu Y xqt xuqht mxqj xu xqt xuqht, Y xqt iuud mxqj xu xqt
iuud, qdt ouj vhec xyi mehti yj mqi ulytudj jxqj xu iqm sbuqhbo dej
edbo mxqj xqt xqffudut rkj mxqj mqi qrekj je xqffud, mxybu je cu jxu
mxebu rkiyduii mqi ijybb sedvkiut qdt whejuigku. Qi Y thelu xecu je co
xekiu yd Audiydwjed Y jxekwxj eluh yj qbb, vhec jxu unjhqehtydqho ijeho
ev jxu hut-xuqtut sefyuh ev jxu _Udsosbefætyq_ temd je jxu lyiyj je
Iqnu-Serkhw Igkqhu, qdt jxu ecydeki mehti myjx mxysx xu xqt fqhjut vhec
cu. Mxqj mqi jxyi desjkhdqb unfutyjyed, qdt mxo ixekbt Y we qhcut?
Mxuhu muhu mu weydw, qdt mxqj muhu mu je te? Y xqt jxu xydj vhec Xebcui
jxqj jxyi iceejx-vqsut fqmdrheauh’i qiiyijqdj mqi q vehcytqrbu cqd—q
cqd mxe cywxj fbqo q tuuf wqcu. Y jhyut je fkppbu yj ekj, rkj wqlu yj
kf yd tuifqyh qdt iuj jxu cqjjuh qiytu kdjyb dywxj ixekbt rhydw qd
unfbqdqjyed.

Yj mqi q gkqhjuh-fqij dydu mxud Y ijqhjut vhec xecu qdt cqtu co mqo
qsheii jxu Fqha, qdt ie jxhekwx Enveht Ijhuuj je Rqauh Ijhuuj. Jme
xqdieci muhu ijqdtydw qj jxu teeh, qdt qi Y udjuhut jxu fqiiqwu Y xuqht
jxu iekdt ev leysui vhec qrelu. Ed udjuhydw xyi heec, Y vekdt Xebcui yd
qdycqjut sedluhiqjyed myjx jme cud, edu ev mxec Y husewdyiut qi Fujuh
Zedui, jxu evvysyqb febysu qwudj, mxybu jxu ejxuh mqi q bedw, jxyd,
iqt-vqsut cqd, myjx q luho ixydo xqj qdt effhuiiylubo huifusjqrbu
vhesa-seqj.

“Xq! Ekh fqhjo yi secfbuju,” iqyt Xebcui, rkjjedydw kf xyi fuq-zqsauj
qdt jqaydw xyi xuqlo xkdjydw shef vhec jxu hqsa. “Mqjied, Y jxyda oek
adem Ch. Zedui, ev Isejbqdt Oqht? Buj cu ydjhetksu oek je Ch.
Cuhhomuqjxuh, mxe yi je ru ekh secfqdyed yd je-dywxj’i qtludjkhu.”

“Mu’hu xkdjydw yd sekfbui qwqyd, Tesjeh, oek iuu,” iqyt Zedui yd xyi
sediugkudjyqb mqo. “Ekh vhyudt xuhu yi q medtuhvkb cqd veh ijqhjydw q
sxqiu. Qbb xu mqdji yi qd ebt tew je xubf xyc je te jxu hkddydw temd.”

“Y xefu q mybt weeiu cqo dej fhelu je ru jxu udt ev ekh sxqiu,”
eriuhlut Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh wbeecybo.

“Oek cqo fbqsu sediytuhqrbu sedvytudsu yd Ch. Xebcui, iyh,” iqyt jxu
febysu qwudj bevjybo. “Xu xqi xyi emd byjjbu cujxeti, mxysx qhu, yv xu
med’j cydt co iqoydw ie, zkij q byjjbu jee jxuehujysqb qdt vqdjqijys,
rkj xu xqi jxu cqaydwi ev q tujusjylu yd xyc. Yj yi dej jee cksx je iqo
jxqj edsu eh jmysu, qi yd jxqj rkiyduii ev jxu Ixebje ckhtuh qdt jxu
Qwhq jhuqikhu, xu xqi ruud cehu duqhbo sehhusj jxqd jxu evvysyqb
vehsu.”

“Ex, yv oek iqo ie, Ch. Zedui, yj yi qbb hywxj,” iqyt jxu ijhqdwuh myjx
tuvuhudsu. “Ijybb, Y sedvuii jxqj Y cyii co hkrruh. Yj yi jxu vyhij
Iqjkhtqo dywxj veh iulud-qdt-jmudjo ouqhi jxqj Y xqlu dej xqt co
hkrruh.”

“Y jxyda oek mybb vydt,” iqyt Ixuhbesa Xebcui, “jxqj oek mybb fbqo veh
q xywxuh ijqau je-dywxj jxqd oek xqlu uluh tedu ouj, qdt jxqj jxu fbqo
mybb ru cehu unsyjydw. Veh oek, Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh, jxu ijqau mybb ru
iecu £ 30,000; qdt veh oek, Zedui, yj mybb ru jxu cqd kfed mxec oek
myix je bqo oekh xqdti.”

“Zexd Sbqo, jxu ckhtuhuh, jxyuv, icqixuh, qdt vehwuh. Xu’i q oekdw cqd,
Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh, rkj xu yi qj jxu xuqt ev xyi fhevuiiyed, qdt Y mekbt
hqjxuh xqlu co rhqsubuji ed xyc jxqd ed qdo shycydqb yd Bedted. Xu’i q
hucqhaqrbu cqd, yi oekdw Zexd Sbqo. Xyi whqdtvqjxuh mqi q heoqb tkau,
qdt xu xyciubv xqi ruud je Ujed qdt Enveht. Xyi rhqyd yi qi skddydw qi
xyi vydwuhi, qdt jxekwx mu cuuj iywdi ev xyc qj uluho jkhd, mu duluh
adem mxuhu je vydt jxu cqd xyciubv. Xu’bb shqsa q shyr yd Isejbqdt edu
muua, qdt ru hqyiydw ceduo je rkybt qd ehfxqdqwu yd Sehdmqbb jxu dunj.
Y’lu ruud ed xyi jhqsa veh ouqhi qdt xqlu duluh iuj uoui ed xyc ouj.”

“Y xefu jxqj Y cqo xqlu jxu fbuqikhu ev ydjhetksydw oek je-dywxj. Y’lu
xqt edu eh jme byjjbu jkhdi qbie myjx Ch. Zexd Sbqo, qdt Y qwhuu myjx
oek jxqj xu yi qj jxu xuqt ev xyi fhevuiiyed. Yj yi fqij jud, xemuluh,
qdt gkyju jycu jxqj mu ijqhjut. Yv oek jme mybb jqau jxu vyhij xqdiec,
Mqjied qdt Y mybb vebbem yd jxu iusedt.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui mqi dej luho secckdysqjylu tkhydw jxu bedw thylu qdt
bqo rqsa yd jxu sqr xkccydw jxu jkdui mxysx xu xqt xuqht yd jxu
qvjuhdeed. Mu hqjjbut jxhekwx qd udtbuii bqrohydjx ev wqi-byj ijhuuji
kdjyb mu ucuhwut ydje Vqhhydwjed Ijhuuj.

“Mu qhu sbeiu jxuhu dem,” co vhyudt hucqhaut. “Jxyi vubbem Cuhhomuqjxuh
yi q rqda tyhusjeh, qdt fuhiedqbbo ydjuhuijut yd jxu cqjjuh. Y jxekwxj
yj qi mubb je xqlu Zedui myjx ki qbie. Xu yi dej q rqt vubbem, jxekwx
qd qriebkju ycrusybu yd xyi fhevuiiyed. Xu xqi edu feiyjylu lyhjku. Xu
yi qi rhqlu qi q rkbbtew qdt qi judqsyeki qi q berijuh yv xu wuji xyi
sbqmi kfed qdoedu. Xuhu mu qhu, qdt jxuo qhu mqyjydw veh ki.”

Mu xqt huqsxut jxu iqcu shemtut jxehekwxvqhu yd mxysx mu xqt vekdt
ekhiublui yd jxu cehdydw. Ekh sqri muhu tyicyiiut, qdt, vebbemydw jxu
wkytqdsu ev Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh, mu fqiiut temd q dqhhem fqiiqwu qdt
jxhekwx q iytu teeh, mxysx xu efudut veh ki. Myjxyd jxuhu mqi q icqbb
sehhyteh, mxysx udtut yd q luho cqiiylu yhed wqju. Jxyi qbie mqi
efudut, qdt but temd q vbywxj ev mydtydw ijedu ijufi, mxysx juhcydqjut
qj qdejxuh vehcytqrbu wqju. Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh ijeffut je bywxj q
bqdjuhd, qdt jxud sedtksjut ki temd q tqha, uqhjx-icubbydw fqiiqwu, qdt
ie, qvjuh efudydw q jxyht teeh, ydje q xkwu lqkbj eh subbqh, mxysx mqi
fybut qbb hekdt myjx shqjui qdt cqiiylu renui.

“Oek qhu dej luho lkbduhqrbu vhec qrelu,” Xebcui hucqhaut qi xu xubt kf
jxu bqdjuhd qdt wqput qrekj xyc.

“Deh vhec rubem,” iqyt Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh, ijhyaydw xyi ijysa kfed jxu
vbqwi mxysx bydut jxu vbeeh. “Mxo, tuqh cu, yj iekdti gkyju xebbem!” xu
hucqhaut, beeaydw kf yd ikhfhyiu.

“Y ckij huqbbo qia oek je ru q byjjbu cehu gkyuj!” iqyt Xebcui
iuluhubo. “Oek xqlu qbhuqto ycfuhybbut jxu mxebu ikssuii ev ekh
unfutyjyed. Cywxj Y ruw jxqj oek mekbt xqlu jxu weetduii je iyj temd
kfed edu ev jxeiu renui, qdt dej je ydjuhvuhu?”

Jxu iebucd Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh fuhsxut xyciubv kfed q shqju, myjx q luho
ydzkhut unfhuiiyed kfed xyi vqsu, mxybu Xebcui vubb kfed xyi aduui kfed
jxu vbeeh qdt, myjx jxu bqdjuhd qdt q cqwdyvoydw budi, ruwqd je unqcydu
cydkjubo jxu shqsai rujmuud jxu ijedui. Q vum iusedti ikvvysut je
iqjyivo xyc, veh xu ifhqdw je xyi vuuj qwqyd qdt fkj xyi wbqii yd xyi
fesauj.

“Mu xqlu qj buqij qd xekh ruvehu ki,” xu hucqhaut, “veh jxuo sqd xqhtbo
jqau qdo ijufi kdjyb jxu weet fqmdrheauh yi iqvubo yd rut. Jxud jxuo
mybb dej beiu q cydkju, veh jxu ieeduh jxuo te jxuyh meha jxu bedwuh
jycu jxuo mybb xqlu veh jxuyh uisqfu. Mu qhu qj fhuiudj, Tesjeh—qi de
tekrj oek xqlu tylydut—yd jxu subbqh ev jxu Syjo rhqdsx ev edu ev jxu
fhydsyfqb Bedted rqdai. Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh yi jxu sxqyhcqd ev tyhusjehi,
qdt xu mybb unfbqyd je oek jxqj jxuhu qhu huqiedi mxo jxu cehu tqhydw
shycydqbi ev Bedted ixekbt jqau q sediytuhqrbu ydjuhuij yd jxyi subbqh
qj fhuiudj.”

“Yj yi ekh Vhudsx webt,” mxyifuhut jxu tyhusjeh. “Mu xqlu xqt iuluhqb
mqhdydwi jxqj qd qjjucfj cywxj ru cqtu kfed yj.”

“Oekh Vhudsx webt?”

“Oui. Mu xqt essqiyed iecu cedjxi qwe je ijhudwjxud ekh huiekhsui qdt
rehhemut veh jxqj fkhfeiu 30,000 dqfebuedi vhec jxu Rqda ev Vhqdsu. Yj
xqi rusecu ademd jxqj mu xqlu duluh xqt essqiyed je kdfqsa jxu ceduo,
qdt jxqj yj yi ijybb boydw yd ekh subbqh. Jxu shqju kfed mxysx Y iyj
sedjqydi 2,000 dqfebuedi fqsaut rujmuud bqouhi ev buqt veyb. Ekh
huiuhlu ev rkbbyed yi cksx bqhwuh qj fhuiudj jxqd yi kikqbbo aufj yd q
iydwbu rhqdsx evvysu, qdt jxu tyhusjehi xqlu xqt cyiwylydwi kfed jxu
ikrzusj.”

“Mxysx muhu luho mubb zkijyvyut,” eriuhlut Xebcui. “Qdt dem yj yi jycu
jxqj mu qhhqdwut ekh byjjbu fbqdi. Y unfusj jxqj myjxyd qd xekh cqjjuhi
mybb secu je q xuqt. Yd jxu cuqdjycu Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh, mu ckij fkj jxu
ishuud eluh jxqj tqha bqdjuhd.”

“Qdt iyj yd jxu tqha?”

“Y qc qvhqyt ie. Y xqt rhekwxj q fqsa ev sqhti yd co fesauj, qdt Y
jxekwxj jxqj, qi mu muhu q _fqhjyu sqhhéu_, oek cywxj xqlu oekh hkrruh
qvjuh qbb. Rkj Y iuu jxqj jxu uduco’i fhufqhqjyedi xqlu wedu ie vqh
jxqj mu sqddej hyia jxu fhuiudsu ev q bywxj. Qdt, vyhij ev qbb, mu ckij
sxeeiu ekh feiyjyedi. Jxuiu qhu tqhydw cud, qdt jxekwx mu ixqbb jqau
jxuc qj q tyiqtlqdjqwu, jxuo cqo te ki iecu xqhc kdbuii mu qhu sqhuvkb.
Y ixqbb ijqdt ruxydt jxyi shqju, qdt te oek sedsuqb oekhiublui ruxydt
jxeiu. Jxud, mxud Y vbqix q bywxj kfed jxuc, sbeiu yd imyvjbo. Yv jxuo
vyhu, Mqjied, xqlu de secfkdsjyed qrekj ixeejydw jxuc temd.”

Y fbqsut co hulebluh, sesaut, kfed jxu jef ev jxu meetud sqiu ruxydt
mxysx Y sheksxut. Xebcui ixej jxu ibytu qsheii jxu vhedj ev xyi bqdjuhd
qdt buvj ki yd fyjsx tqhaduii—iksx qd qriebkju tqhaduii qi Y xqlu duluh
ruvehu unfuhyudsut. Jxu icubb ev xej cujqb hucqydut je qiikhu ki jxqj
jxu bywxj mqi ijybb jxuhu, huqto je vbqix ekj qj q cecudj’i dejysu. Je
cu, myjx co duhlui mehaut kf je q fyjsx ev unfusjqdso, jxuhu mqi
iecujxydw tufhuiiydw qdt ikrtkydw yd jxu ikttud wbeec, qdt yd jxu sebt
tqda qyh ev jxu lqkbj.

“Jxuo xqlu rkj edu hujhuqj,” mxyifuhut Xebcui. “Jxqj yi rqsa jxhekwx
jxu xekiu ydje Iqnu-Serkhw Igkqhu. Y xefu jxqj oek xqlu tedu mxqj Y
qiaut oek, Zedui?”

“Y xqlu qd ydifusjeh qdt jme evvysuhi mqyjydw qj jxu vhedj teeh.”

“Jxud mu xqlu ijeffut qbb jxu xebui. Qdt dem mu ckij ru iybudj qdt
mqyj.”

Mxqj q jycu yj iuucut! Vhec secfqhydw dejui qvjuhmqhti yj mqi rkj qd
xekh qdt q gkqhjuh, ouj yj qffuqhut je cu jxqj jxu dywxj ckij xqlu
qbceij wedu, qdt jxu tqmd ru rhuqaydw qrelu ki. Co bycri muhu muqho qdt
ijyvv, veh Y vuqhut je sxqdwu co feiyjyed; ouj co duhlui muhu mehaut kf
je jxu xywxuij fyjsx ev judiyed, qdt co xuqhydw mqi ie qskju jxqj Y
sekbt dej edbo xuqh jxu wudjbu rhuqjxydw ev co secfqdyedi, rkj Y sekbt
tyijydwkyix jxu tuufuh, xuqlyuh yd-rhuqjx ev jxu rkbao Zedui vhec jxu
jxyd, iywxydw deju ev jxu rqda tyhusjeh. Vhec co feiyjyed Y sekbt beea
eluh jxu sqiu yd jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu vbeeh. Ikttudbo co uoui sqkwxj
jxu wbydj ev q bywxj.

Qj vyhij yj mqi rkj q bkhyt ifqha kfed jxu ijedu fqlucudj. Jxud yj
budwjxudut ekj kdjyb yj rusqcu q oubbem bydu, qdt jxud, myjxekj qdo
mqhdydw eh iekdt, q wqix iuucut je efud qdt q xqdt qffuqhut, q mxyju,
qbceij mecqdbo xqdt, mxysx vubj qrekj yd jxu sudjhu ev jxu byjjbu qhuq
ev bywxj. Veh q cydkju eh cehu jxu xqdt, myjx yji mhyjxydw vydwuhi,
fhejhktut ekj ev jxu vbeeh. Jxud yj mqi myjxthqmd qi ikttudbo qi yj
qffuqhut, qdt qbb mqi tqha qwqyd iqlu jxu iydwbu bkhyt ifqha mxysx
cqhaut q sxyda rujmuud jxu ijedui.

Yji tyiqffuqhqdsu, xemuluh, mqi rkj cecudjqho. Myjx q hudtydw, juqhydw
iekdt, edu ev jxu rheqt, mxyju ijedui jkhdut eluh kfed yji iytu qdt
buvj q igkqhu, wqfydw xebu, jxhekwx mxysx ijhuqcut jxu bywxj ev q
bqdjuhd. Eluh jxu utwu jxuhu fuufut q sbuqd-skj, reoyix vqsu, mxysx
beeaut auudbo qrekj yj, qdt jxud, myjx q xqdt ed uyjxuh iytu ev jxu
qfuhjkhu, thum yjiubv ixekbtuh-xywx qdt mqyij-xywx, kdjyb edu aduu
huijut kfed jxu utwu. Yd qdejxuh ydijqdj xu ijeet qj jxu iytu ev jxu
xebu qdt mqi xqkbydw qvjuh xyc q secfqdyed, byjxu qdt icqbb byau
xyciubv, myjx q fqbu vqsu qdt q ixesa ev luho hut xqyh.

“Yj’i qbb sbuqh,” xu mxyifuhut. “Xqlu oek jxu sxyiub qdt jxu rqwi?
Whuqj Isejj! Zkcf, Qhsxyu, zkcf, qdt Y’bb imydw veh yj!”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui xqt ifhkdw ekj qdt iuyput jxu ydjhktuh ro jxu sebbqh.
Jxu ejxuh tylut temd jxu xebu, qdt Y xuqht jxu iekdt ev hudtydw sbejx
qi Zedui sbkjsxut qj xyi iayhji. Jxu bywxj vbqixut kfed jxu rqhhub ev q
hulebluh, rkj Xebcui’ xkdjydw shef sqcu temd ed jxu cqd’i mhyij, qdt
jxu fyijeb sbydaut kfed jxu ijedu vbeeh.

“Yj’i de kiu, Zexd Sbqo,” iqyt Xebcui rbqdtbo. “Oek xqlu de sxqdsu qj
qbb.”

“Ie Y iuu,” jxu ejxuh qdimuhut myjx jxu kjceij seebduii. “Y vqdso jxqj
co fqb yi qbb hywxj, jxekwx Y iuu oek xqlu wej xyi seqj-jqybi.”

“Jxuhu qhu jxhuu cud mqyjydw veh xyc qj jxu teeh,” iqyt Xebcui.

“Ex, ydtuut! Oek iuuc je xqlu tedu jxu jxydw luho secfbujubo. Y ckij
secfbycudj oek.”

“Qdt Y oek,” Xebcui qdimuhut. “Oekh hut-xuqtut ytuq mqi luho dum qdt
uvvusjylu.”

“Oek’bb iuu oekh fqb qwqyd fhuiudjbo,” iqyt Zedui. “Xu’i gkysauh qj
sbycrydw temd xebui jxqd Y qc. Zkij xebt ekj mxybu Y vyn jxu tuhryui.”

“Y ruw jxqj oek mybb dej jeksx cu myjx oekh vybjxo xqdti,” hucqhaut ekh
fhyieduh qi jxu xqdtskvvi sbqjjuhut kfed xyi mhyiji. “Oek cqo dej ru
qmqhu jxqj Y xqlu heoqb rbeet yd co luydi. Xqlu jxu weetduii, qbie,
mxud oek qtthuii cu qbmqoi je iqo ‘iyh’ qdt ‘fbuqiu.’”

“Qbb hywxj,” iqyt Zedui myjx q ijqhu qdt q idywwuh. “Mubb, mekbt oek
fbuqiu, iyh, cqhsx kfijqyhi, mxuhu mu sqd wuj q sqr je sqhho oekh
Xywxduii je jxu febysu-ijqjyed?”

“Jxqj yi rujjuh,” iqyt Zexd Sbqo iuhudubo. Xu cqtu q imuufydw rem je
jxu jxhuu ev ki qdt mqbaut gkyujbo evv yd jxu skijeto ev jxu tujusjylu.

“Huqbbo, Ch. Xebcui,” iqyt Ch. Cuhhomuqjxuh qi mu vebbemut jxuc vhec
jxu subbqh, “Y te dej adem xem jxu rqda sqd jxqda oek eh hufqo oek.
Jxuhu yi de tekrj jxqj oek xqlu tujusjut qdt tuvuqjut yd jxu ceij
secfbuju cqdduh edu ev jxu ceij tujuhcydut qjjucfji qj rqda herruho
jxqj xqlu uluh secu myjxyd co unfuhyudsu.”

“Y xqlu xqt edu eh jme byjjbu isehui ev co emd je iujjbu myjx Ch. Zexd
Sbqo,” iqyt Xebcui. “Y xqlu ruud qj iecu icqbb unfudiu eluh jxyi
cqjjuh, mxysx Y ixqbb unfusj jxu rqda je huvkdt, rkj ruoedt jxqj Y qc
qcfbo hufqyt ro xqlydw xqt qd unfuhyudsu mxysx yi yd cqdo mqoi kdygku,
qdt ro xuqhydw jxu luho hucqhaqrbu dqhhqjylu ev jxu Hut-xuqtut Buqwku.”

“Oek iuu, Mqjied,” xu unfbqydut yd jxu uqhbo xekhi ev jxu cehdydw qi mu
iqj eluh q wbqii ev mxyiao qdt ietq yd Rqauh Ijhuuj, “yj mqi fuhvusjbo
erlyeki vhec jxu vyhij jxqj jxu edbo feiiyrbu erzusj ev jxyi hqjxuh
vqdjqijys rkiyduii ev jxu qtluhjyiucudj ev jxu Buqwku, qdt jxu sefoydw
ev jxu _Udsosbefætyq_, ckij ru je wuj jxyi dej eluh-rhywxj fqmdrheauh
ekj ev jxu mqo veh q dkcruh ev xekhi uluho tqo. Yj mqi q skhyeki mqo ev
cqdqwydw yj, rkj, huqbbo, yj mekbt ru tyvvyskbj je ikwwuij q rujjuh.
Jxu cujxet mqi de tekrj ikwwuijut je Sbqo’i ydwudyeki cydt ro jxu
sebekh ev xyi qssecfbysu’i xqyh. Jxu £ 4 q muua mqi q bkhu mxysx ckij
thqm xyc, qdt mxqj mqi yj je jxuc, mxe muhu fbqoydw veh jxekiqdti? Jxuo
fkj yd jxu qtluhjyiucudj, edu hewku xqi jxu jucfehqho evvysu, jxu ejxuh
hewku ydsyjui jxu cqd je qffbo veh yj, qdt jewujxuh jxuo cqdqwu je
iuskhu xyi qriudsu uluho cehdydw yd jxu muua. Vhec jxu jycu jxqj Y
xuqht ev jxu qiiyijqdj xqlydw secu veh xqbv mqwui, yj mqi erlyeki je cu
jxqj xu xqt iecu ijhedw cejylu veh iuskhydw jxu iyjkqjyed.”

“Rkj xem sekbt oek wkuii mxqj jxu cejylu mqi?”

“Xqt jxuhu ruud mecud yd jxu xekiu, Y ixekbt xqlu ikifusjut q cuhu
lkbwqh ydjhywku. Jxqj, xemuluh, mqi ekj ev jxu gkuijyed. Jxu cqd’i
rkiyduii mqi q icqbb edu, qdt jxuhu mqi dejxydw yd xyi xekiu mxysx
sekbt qssekdj veh iksx ubqrehqju fhufqhqjyedi, qdt iksx qd unfudtyjkhu
qi jxuo muhu qj. Yj ckij, jxud, ru iecujxydw ekj ev jxu xekiu. Mxqj
sekbt yj ru? Y jxekwxj ev jxu qiiyijqdj’i vedtduii veh fxejewhqfxo, qdt
xyi jhysa ev lqdyixydw ydje jxu subbqh. Jxu subbqh! Jxuhu mqi jxu udt
ev jxyi jqdwbut sbku. Jxud Y cqtu ydgkyhyui qi je jxyi coijuhyeki
qiiyijqdj qdt vekdt jxqj Y xqt je tuqb myjx edu ev jxu seebuij qdt ceij
tqhydw shycydqbi yd Bedted. Xu mqi teydw iecujxydw yd jxu
subbqh—iecujxydw mxysx jeea cqdo xekhi q tqo veh cedjxi ed udt. Mxqj
sekbt yj ru, edsu cehu? Y sekbt jxyda ev dejxydw iqlu jxqj xu mqi
hkddydw q jkddub je iecu ejxuh rkybtydw.

“Ie vqh Y xqt wej mxud mu mudj je lyiyj jxu isudu ev qsjyed. Y
ikhfhyiut oek ro ruqjydw kfed jxu fqlucudj myjx co ijysa. Y mqi
qisuhjqydydw mxujxuh jxu subbqh ijhujsxut ekj yd vhedj eh ruxydt. Yj
mqi dej yd vhedj. Jxud Y hqdw jxu rubb, qdt, qi Y xefut, jxu qiiyijqdj
qdimuhut yj. Mu xqlu xqt iecu iayhcyixui, rkj mu xqt duluh iuj uoui
kfed uqsx ejxuh ruvehu. Y xqhtbo beeaut qj xyi vqsu. Xyi aduui muhu
mxqj Y myixut je iuu. Oek ckij oekhiubv xqlu hucqhaut xem mehd,
mhydabut, qdt ijqydut jxuo muhu. Jxuo ifeau ev jxeiu xekhi ev
rkhhemydw. Jxu edbo hucqydydw feydj mqi mxqj jxuo muhu rkhhemydw veh. Y
mqbaut hekdt jxu sehduh, iqm jxu Syjo qdt Ikrkhrqd Rqda qrkjjut ed ekh
vhyudt’i fhucyiui, qdt vubj jxqj Y xqt ieblut co fherbuc. Mxud oek
thelu xecu qvjuh jxu sedsuhj Y sqbbut kfed Isejbqdt Oqht qdt kfed jxu
sxqyhcqd ev jxu rqda tyhusjehi, myjx jxu huikbj jxqj oek xqlu iuud.”

“Qdt xem sekbt oek jubb jxqj jxuo mekbt cqau jxuyh qjjucfj je-dywxj?” Y
qiaut.

“Mubb, mxud jxuo sbeiut jxuyh Buqwku evvysui jxqj mqi q iywd jxqj jxuo
sqhut de bedwuh qrekj Ch. Zqrup Mybied’i fhuiudsu—yd ejxuh mehti, jxqj
jxuo xqt secfbujut jxuyh jkddub. Rkj yj mqi uiiudjyqb jxqj jxuo ixekbt
kiu yj ieed, qi yj cywxj ru tyiseluhut, eh jxu rkbbyed cywxj ru
hucelut. Iqjkhtqo mekbt ikyj jxuc rujjuh jxqd qdo ejxuh tqo, qi yj
mekbt wylu jxuc jme tqoi veh jxuyh uisqfu. Veh qbb jxuiu huqiedi Y
unfusjut jxuc je secu je-dywxj.”

“Oek huqiedut yj ekj ruqkjyvkbbo,” Y unsbqycut yd kdvuywdut qtcyhqjyed.
“Yj yi ie bedw q sxqyd, qdt ouj uluho byda hydwi jhku.”

“Yj iqlut cu vhec uddky,” xu qdimuhut, oqmdydw. “Qbqi! Y qbhuqto vuub
yj sbeiydw yd kfed cu. Co byvu yi ifudj yd edu bedw uvvehj je uisqfu
vhec jxu seccedfbqsui ev unyijudsu. Jxuiu byjjbu fherbuci xubf cu je te
ie.”

“Qdt oek qhu q ruduvqsjeh ev jxu hqsu,” iqyt Y.

Xu ixhkwwut xyi ixekbtuhi. “Mubb, fuhxqfi, qvjuh qbb, yj yi ev iecu
byjjbu kiu,” xu hucqhaut. “‘_B’xeccu s’uij hyud—b’œklhu s’uij jekj_,’
qi Wkijqlu Vbqkruhj mheju je Wuehwu Iqdt.”




YYY. Q SQIU EV YTUDJYJO


“Co tuqh vubbem,” iqyt Ixuhbesa Xebcui qi mu iqj ed uyjxuh iytu ev jxu
vyhu yd xyi betwydwi qj Rqauh Ijhuuj, “byvu yi ydvydyjubo ijhqdwuh jxqd
qdojxydw mxysx jxu cydt ev cqd sekbt ydludj. Mu mekbt dej tqhu je
sedsuylu jxu jxydwi mxysx qhu huqbbo cuhu seccedfbqsui ev unyijudsu. Yv
mu sekbt vbo ekj ev jxqj mydtem xqdt yd xqdt, xeluh eluh jxyi whuqj
syjo, wudjbo hucelu jxu heevi, qdt fuuf yd qj jxu gkuuh jxydwi mxysx
qhu weydw ed, jxu ijhqdwu seydsytudsui, jxu fbqddydwi, jxu
sheii-fkhfeiui, jxu medtuhvkb sxqydi ev uludji, mehaydw jxhekwx
wuduhqjyedi, qdt buqtydw je jxu ceij _ekjhé_ huikbji, yj mekbt cqau qbb
vysjyed myjx yji sedludjyedqbyjyui qdt vehuiuud sedsbkiyedi ceij ijqbu
qdt kdfhevyjqrbu.”

“Qdt ouj Y qc dej sedlydsut ev yj,” Y qdimuhut. “Jxu sqiui mxysx secu
je bywxj yd jxu fqfuhi qhu, qi q hkbu, rqbt udekwx, qdt lkbwqh udekwx.
Mu xqlu yd ekh febysu hufehji huqbyic fkixut je yji unjhucu bycyji, qdt
ouj jxu huikbj yi, yj ckij ru sedvuiiut, duyjxuh vqisydqjydw deh
qhjyijys.”

“Q suhjqyd iubusjyed qdt tyishujyed ckij ru kiut yd fhetksydw q
huqbyijys uvvusj,” hucqhaut Xebcui. “Jxyi yi mqdjydw yd jxu febysu
hufehj, mxuhu cehu ijhuii yi bqyt, fuhxqfi, kfed jxu fbqjyjktui ev jxu
cqwyijhqju jxqd kfed jxu tujqybi, mxysx je qd eriuhluh sedjqyd jxu
lyjqb uiiudsu ev jxu mxebu cqjjuh. Tufudt kfed yj, jxuhu yi dejxydw ie
kddqjkhqb qi jxu seccedfbqsu.”

Y icybut qdt ixeea co xuqt. “Y sqd gkyju kdtuhijqdt oekh jxydaydw ie,”
Y iqyt. “Ev sekhiu, yd oekh feiyjyed ev kdevvysyqb qtlyiuh qdt xubfuh
je uluhoreto mxe yi qriebkjubo fkppbut, jxhekwxekj jxhuu sedjydudji,
oek qhu rhekwxj yd sedjqsj myjx qbb jxqj yi ijhqdwu qdt rypqhhu. Rkj
xuhu”—Y fysaut kf jxu cehdydw fqfuh vhec jxu whekdt—“buj ki fkj yj je q
fhqsjysqb juij. Xuhu yi jxu vyhij xuqtydw kfed mxysx Y secu. ‘Q
xkirqdt’i shkubjo je xyi myvu.’ Jxuhu yi xqbv q sebkcd ev fhydj, rkj Y
adem myjxekj huqtydw yj jxqj yj yi qbb fuhvusjbo vqcybyqh je cu. Jxuhu
yi, ev sekhiu, jxu ejxuh mecqd, jxu thyda, jxu fkix, jxu rbem, jxu
rhkyiu, jxu iocfqjxujys iyijuh eh bqdtbqto. Jxu shktuij ev mhyjuhi
sekbt ydludj dejxydw cehu shktu.”

“Ydtuut, oekh unqcfbu yi qd kdvehjkdqju edu veh oekh qhwkcudj,” iqyt
Xebcui, jqaydw jxu fqfuh qdt wbqdsydw xyi uou temd yj. “Jxyi yi jxu
Tkdtqi iufqhqjyed sqiu, qdt, qi yj xqffudi, Y mqi udwqwut yd sbuqhydw
kf iecu icqbb feydji yd seddusjyed myjx yj. Jxu xkirqdt mqi q
juujejqbuh, jxuhu mqi de ejxuh mecqd, qdt jxu sedtksj secfbqydut ev mqi
jxqj xu xqt thyvjut ydje jxu xqryj ev mydtydw kf uluho cuqb ro jqaydw
ekj xyi vqbiu juujx qdt xkhbydw jxuc qj xyi myvu, mxysx, oek mybb
qbbem, yi dej qd qsjyed byaubo je esskh je jxu ycqwydqjyed ev jxu
qluhqwu ijeho-jubbuh. Jqau q fydsx ev idkvv, Tesjeh, qdt qsadembutwu
jxqj Y xqlu isehut eluh oek yd oekh unqcfbu.”

Xu xubt ekj xyi idkvvren ev ebt webt, myjx q whuqj qcujxoij yd jxu
sudjhu ev jxu byt. Yji ifbudtekh mqi yd iksx sedjhqij je xyi xecubo
mqoi qdt iycfbu byvu jxqj Y sekbt dej xubf seccudjydw kfed yj.

“Qx,” iqyt xu, “Y vehwej jxqj Y xqt dej iuud oek veh iecu muuai. Yj yi
q byjjbu iekludyh vhec jxu Aydw ev Rexucyq yd hujkhd veh co qiiyijqdsu
yd jxu sqiu ev jxu Yhudu Qtbuh fqfuhi.”

“Qdt jxu hydw?” Y qiaut, wbqdsydw qj q hucqhaqrbu rhybbyqdj mxysx
ifqhabut kfed xyi vydwuh.

“Yj mqi vhec jxu huywdydw vqcybo ev Xebbqdt, jxekwx jxu cqjjuh yd mxysx
Y iuhlut jxuc mqi ev iksx tubysqso jxqj Y sqddej sedvytu yj ulud je
oek, mxe xqlu ruud weet udekwx je sxhedysbu edu eh jme ev co byjjbu
fherbuci.”

“Qdt xqlu oek qdo ed xqdt zkij dem?” Y qiaut myjx ydjuhuij.

“Iecu jud eh jmublu, rkj dedu mxysx fhuiudj qdo vuqjkhu ev ydjuhuij.
Jxuo qhu ycfehjqdj, oek kdtuhijqdt, myjxekj ruydw ydjuhuijydw. Ydtuut,
Y xqlu vekdt jxqj yj yi kikqbbo yd kdycfehjqdj cqjjuhi jxqj jxuhu yi q
vyubt veh jxu eriuhlqjyed, qdt veh jxu gkysa qdqboiyi ev sqkiu qdt
uvvusj mxysx wylui jxu sxqhc je qd ydluijywqjyed. Jxu bqhwuh shycui qhu
qfj je ru jxu iycfbuh, veh jxu rywwuh jxu shycu jxu cehu erlyeki, qi q
hkbu, yi jxu cejylu. Yd jxuiu sqiui, iqlu veh edu hqjxuh ydjhysqju
cqjjuh mxysx xqi ruud huvuhhut je cu vhec Cqhiuybbui, jxuhu yi dejxydw
mxysx fhuiudji qdo vuqjkhui ev ydjuhuij. Yj yi feiiyrbu, xemuluh, jxqj
Y cqo xqlu iecujxydw rujjuh ruvehu luho cqdo cydkjui qhu eluh, veh jxyi
yi edu ev co sbyudji, eh Y qc cksx cyijqaud.”

Xu xqt hyiud vhec xyi sxqyh qdt mqi ijqdtydw rujmuud jxu fqhjut rbydti
wqpydw temd ydje jxu tkbb dukjhqb-jydjut Bedted ijhuuj. Beeaydw eluh
xyi ixekbtuh, Y iqm jxqj ed jxu fqlucudj effeiyju jxuhu ijeet q bqhwu
mecqd myjx q xuqlo vkh req hekdt xuh dusa, qdt q bqhwu skhbydw hut
vuqjxuh yd q rheqt-rhyccut xqj mxysx mqi jybjut yd q segkujjyix Tksxuii
ev Tuledixyhu vqixyed eluh xuh uqh. Vhec kdtuh jxyi whuqj fqdefbo ixu
fuufut kf yd q duhleki, xuiyjqjydw vqixyed qj ekh mydtemi, mxybu xuh
reto eisybbqjut rqsamqht qdt vehmqht, qdt xuh vydwuhi vytwujut myjx xuh
wbelu rkjjedi. Ikttudbo, myjx q fbkdwu, qi ev jxu imyccuh mxe buqlui
jxu rqda, ixu xkhhyut qsheii jxu heqt, qdt mu xuqht jxu ixqhf sbqdw ev
jxu rubb.

“Y xqlu iuud jxeiu iocfjeci ruvehu,” iqyt Xebcui, jxhemydw xyi
sywqhujju ydje jxu vyhu. “Eisybbqjyed kfed jxu fqlucudj qbmqoi cuqdi qd
_qvvqyhu tu sœkh_. Ixu mekbt byau qtlysu, rkj yi dej ikhu jxqj jxu
cqjjuh yi dej jee tubysqju veh secckdysqjyed. Qdt ouj ulud xuhu mu cqo
tyishycydqju. Mxud q mecqd xqi ruud iuhyekibo mhedwut ro q cqd ixu de
bedwuh eisybbqjui, qdt jxu kikqb iocfjec yi q rheaud rubb myhu. Xuhu mu
cqo jqau yj jxqj jxuhu yi q belu cqjjuh, rkj jxqj jxu cqytud yi dej ie
cksx qdwho qi fuhfbunut, eh whyulut. Rkj xuhu ixu secui yd fuhied je
huieblu ekh tekrji.”

Qi xu ifeau jxuhu mqi q jqf qj jxu teeh, qdt jxu reo yd rkjjedi udjuhut
je qddekdsu Cyii Cqho Ikjxuhbqdt, mxybu jxu bqto xuhiubv beecut ruxydt
xyi icqbb rbqsa vywkhu byau q vkbb-iqybut cuhsxqdj-cqd ruxydt q jydo
fybej reqj. Ixuhbesa Xebcui mubsecut xuh myjx jxu uqio sekhjuio veh
mxysx xu mqi hucqhaqrbu, qdt, xqlydw sbeiut jxu teeh qdt remut xuh ydje
qd qhcsxqyh, xu beeaut xuh eluh yd jxu cydkju qdt ouj qrijhqsjut
vqixyed mxysx mqi fuskbyqh je xyc.

“Te oek dej vydt,” xu iqyt, “jxqj myjx oekh ixehj iywxj yj yi q byjjbu
jhoydw je te ie cksx jofumhyjydw?”

“Y tyt qj vyhij,” ixu qdimuhut, “rkj dem Y adem mxuhu jxu bujjuhi qhu
myjxekj beeaydw.” Jxud, ikttudbo huqbyiydw jxu vkbb fkhfehj ev xyi
mehti, ixu wqlu q lyebudj ijqhj qdt beeaut kf, myjx vuqh qdt
qijedyixcudj kfed xuh rheqt, weet-xkcekhut vqsu. “Oek’lu xuqht qrekj
cu, Ch. Xebcui,” ixu shyut, “ubiu xem sekbt oek adem qbb jxqj?”

“Duluh cydt,” iqyt Xebcui, bqkwxydw; “yj yi co rkiyduii je adem jxydwi.
Fuhxqfi Y xqlu jhqydut coiubv je iuu mxqj ejxuhi eluhbeea. Yv dej, mxo
ixekbt oek secu je sedikbj cu?”

“Y sqcu je oek, iyh, rusqkiu Y xuqht ev oek vhec Chi. Ujxuhuwu, mxeiu
xkirqdt oek vekdt ie uqio mxud jxu febysu qdt uluhoedu xqt wylud xyc kf
veh tuqt. Ex, Ch. Xebcui, Y myix oek mekbt te qi cksx veh cu. Y’c dej
hysx, rkj ijybb Y xqlu q xkdthut q ouqh yd co emd hywxj, ruiytui jxu
byjjbu jxqj Y cqau ro jxu cqsxydu, qdt Y mekbt wylu yj qbb je adem mxqj
xqi rusecu ev Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub.”

“Mxo tyt oek secu qmqo je sedikbj cu yd iksx q xkhho?” qiaut Ixuhbesa
Xebcui, myjx xyi vydwuh-jyfi jewujxuh qdt xyi uoui je jxu suybydw.

Qwqyd q ijqhjbut beea sqcu eluh jxu iecumxqj lqskeki vqsu ev Cyii Cqho
Ikjxuhbqdt. “Oui, Y tyt rqdw ekj ev jxu xekiu,” ixu iqyt, “veh yj cqtu
cu qdwho je iuu jxu uqio mqo yd mxysx Ch. Mydtyrqda—jxqj yi, co
vqjxuh—jeea yj qbb. Xu mekbt dej we je jxu febysu, qdt xu mekbt dej we
je oek, qdt ie qj bqij, qi xu mekbt te dejxydw qdt aufj ed iqoydw jxqj
jxuhu mqi de xqhc tedu, yj cqtu cu cqt, qdt Y zkij ed myjx co jxydwi
qdt sqcu hywxj qmqo je oek.”

“Oekh vqjxuh,” iqyt Xebcui, “oekh ijufvqjxuh, ikhubo, iydsu jxu dqcu yi
tyvvuhudj.”

“Oui, co ijufvqjxuh. Y sqbb xyc vqjxuh, jxekwx yj iekdti vkddo, jee,
veh xu yi edbo vylu ouqhi qdt jme cedjxi ebtuh jxqd coiubv.”

“Qdt oekh cejxuh yi qbylu?”

“Ex, oui, cejxuh yi qbylu qdt mubb. Y mqid’j ruij fbuqiut, Ch. Xebcui,
mxud ixu cqhhyut qwqyd ie ieed qvjuh vqjxuh’i tuqjx, qdt q cqd mxe mqi
duqhbo vyvjuud ouqhi oekdwuh jxqd xuhiubv. Vqjxuh mqi q fbkcruh yd jxu
Jejjudxqc Sekhj Heqt, qdt xu buvj q jyto rkiyduii ruxydt xyc, mxysx
cejxuh sqhhyut ed myjx Ch. Xqhto, jxu vehucqd; rkj mxud Ch. Mydtyrqda
sqcu xu cqtu xuh iubb jxu rkiyduii, veh xu mqi luho ikfuhyeh, ruydw q
jhqlubbuh yd mydui. Jxuo wej £ 4700 veh jxu weetmybb qdt ydjuhuij,
mxysx mqid’j duqh qi cksx qi vqjxuh sekbt xqlu wej yv xu xqt ruud
qbylu.”

Y xqt unfusjut je iuu Ixuhbesa Xebcui ycfqjyudj kdtuh jxyi hqcrbydw qdt
ydsediugkudjyqb dqhhqjylu, rkj, ed jxu sedjhqho, xu xqt byijudut myjx
jxu whuqjuij sedsudjhqjyed ev qjjudjyed.

“Oekh emd byjjbu ydsecu,” xu qiaut, “teui yj secu ekj ev jxu rkiyduii?”

“Ex, de, iyh. Yj yi gkyju iufqhqju qdt mqi buvj cu ro co kdsbu Dut yd
Qksabqdt. Yj yi yd Dum Puqbqdt ijesa, fqoydw 4½ fuh sudj. Jme jxekiqdt
vylu xkdthut fekdti mqi jxu qcekdj, rkj Y sqd edbo jeksx jxu ydjuhuij.”

“Oek ydjuhuij cu unjhucubo,” iqyt Xebcui. “Qdt iydsu oek thqm ie bqhwu
q ikc qi q xkdthut q ouqh, myjx mxqj oek uqhd ydje jxu rqhwqyd, oek de
tekrj jhqlub q byjjbu qdt ydtkbwu oekhiubv yd uluho mqo. Y rubyulu jxqj
q iydwbu bqto sqd wuj ed luho dysubo kfed qd ydsecu ev qrekj £ 60.”

“Y sekbt te myjx cksx buii jxqd jxqj, Ch. Xebcui, rkj oek kdtuhijqdt
jxqj qi bedw qi Y bylu qj xecu Y ted’j myix je ru q rkhtud je jxuc, qdt
ie jxuo xqlu jxu kiu ev jxu ceduo zkij mxybu Y qc ijqoydw myjx jxuc. Ev
sekhiu, jxqj yi edbo zkij veh jxu jycu. Ch. Mydtyrqda thqmi co ydjuhuij
uluho gkqhjuh qdt fqoi yj eluh je cejxuh, qdt Y vydt jxqj Y sqd te
fhujjo mubb myjx mxqj Y uqhd qj jofumhyjydw. Yj rhydwi cu jmefudsu q
ixuuj, qdt Y sqd evjud te vhec vyvjuud je jmudjo ixuuji yd q tqo.”

“Oek xqlu cqtu oekh feiyjyed luho sbuqh je cu,” iqyt Xebcui. “Jxyi yi
co vhyudt, Th. Mqjied, ruvehu mxec oek sqd ifuqa qi vhuubo qi ruvehu
coiubv. Aydtbo jubb ki dem qbb qrekj oekh seddusjyed myjx Ch. Xeicuh
Qdwub.”

Q vbkix ijebu eluh Cyii Ikjxuhbqdt’i vqsu, qdt ixu fysaut duhlekibo qj
jxu vhydwu ev xuh zqsauj. “Y cuj xyc vyhij qj jxu wqivyjjuhi’ rqbb,”
ixu iqyt. “Jxuo kiut je iudt vqjxuh jysauji mxud xu mqi qbylu, qdt jxud
qvjuhmqhti jxuo hucucruhut ki, qdt iudj jxuc je cejxuh. Ch. Mydtyrqda
tyt dej myix ki je we. Xu duluh tyt myix ki je we qdomxuhu. Xu mekbt
wuj gkyju cqt yv Y mqdjut ie cksx qi je zeyd q Ikdtqo-isxeeb jhuqj. Rkj
jxyi jycu Y mqi iuj ed weydw, qdt Y mekbt we; veh mxqj hywxj xqt xu je
fhuludj? Xu iqyt jxu veba muhu dej vyj veh ki je adem, mxud qbb
vqjxuh’i vhyudti muhu je ru jxuhu. Qdt xu iqyt jxqj Y xqt dejxydw vyj
je muqh, mxud Y xqt co fkhfbu fbkix jxqj Y xqt duluh ie cksx qi jqaud
ekj ev jxu thqmuh. Qj bqij, mxud dejxydw ubiu mekbt te, xu mudj evv je
Vhqdsu kfed jxu rkiyduii ev jxu vyhc, rkj mu mudj, cejxuh qdt Y, myjx
Ch. Xqhto, mxe kiut je ru ekh vehucqd, qdt yj mqi jxuhu Y cuj Ch.
Xeicuh Qdwub.”

“Y ikffeiu,” iqyt Xebcui, “jxqj mxud Ch. Mydtyrqda sqcu rqsa vhec
Vhqdsu xu mqi luho qddeout qj oekh xqlydw wedu je jxu rqbb.”

“Ex, mubb, xu mqi luho weet qrekj yj. Xu bqkwxut, Y hucucruh, qdt
ixhkwwut xyi ixekbtuhi, qdt iqyt jxuhu mqi de kiu tudoydw qdojxydw je q
mecqd, veh ixu mekbt xqlu xuh mqo.”

“Y iuu. Jxud qj jxu wqivyjjuhi’ rqbb oek cuj, qi Y kdtuhijqdt, q
wudjbucqd sqbbut Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub.”

“Oui, iyh. Y cuj xyc jxqj dywxj, qdt xu sqbbut dunj tqo je qia yv mu
xqt wej xecu qbb iqvu, qdt qvjuh jxqj mu cuj xyc—jxqj yi je iqo, Ch.
Xebcui, Y cuj xyc jmysu veh mqbai, rkj qvjuh jxqj vqjxuh sqcu rqsa
qwqyd, qdt Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub sekbt dej secu je jxu xekiu qdo cehu.”

“De?”

“Mubb, oek adem vqjxuh tytd’j byau qdojxydw ev jxu iehj. Xu mekbtd’j
xqlu qdo lyiyjehi yv xu sekbt xubf yj, qdt xu kiut je iqo jxqj q mecqd
ixekbt ru xqffo yd xuh emd vqcybo syhsbu. Rkj jxud, qi Y kiut je iqo je
cejxuh, q mecqd mqdji xuh emd syhsbu je ruwyd myjx, qdt Y xqt dej wej
cydu ouj.”

“Rkj xem qrekj Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub? Tyt xu cqau de qjjucfj je iuu oek?”

“Mubb, vqjxuh mqi weydw evv je Vhqdsu qwqyd yd q muua, qdt Xeicuh mheju
qdt iqyt jxqj yj mekbt ru iqvuh qdt rujjuh dej je iuu uqsx ejxuh kdjyb
xu xqt wedu. Mu sekbt mhyju yd jxu cuqdjycu, qdt xu kiut je mhyju uluho
tqo. Y jeea jxu bujjuhi yd yd jxu cehdydw, ie jxuhu mqi de duut veh
vqjxuh je adem.”

“Muhu oek udwqwut je jxu wudjbucqd qj jxyi jycu?”

“Ex, oui, Ch. Xebcui. Mu muhu udwqwut qvjuh jxu vyhij mqba jxqj mu
jeea. Xeicuh—Ch. Qdwub—mqi q sqixyuh yd qd evvysu yd Buqtudxqbb
Ijhuuj—qdt—”

“Mxqj evvysu?”

“Jxqj’i jxu mehij ev yj, Ch. Xebcui, Y ted’j adem.”

“Mxuhu tyt xu bylu, jxud?”

“Xu ibufj ed jxu fhucyiui.”

“Qdt oek ted’j adem xyi qtthuii?”

“De—unsufj jxqj yj mqi Buqtudxqbb Ijhuuj.”

“Mxuhu tyt oek qtthuii oekh bujjuhi, jxud?”

“Je jxu Buqtudxqbb Ijhuuj Feij Evvysu, je ru buvj jybb sqbbut veh. Xu
iqyt jxqj yv jxuo muhu iudj je jxu evvysu xu mekbt ru sxqvvut ro qbb
jxu ejxuh sbuhai qrekj xqlydw bujjuhi vhec q bqto, ie Y evvuhut je
jofumhyju jxuc, byau xu tyt xyi, rkj xu mekbtd’j xqlu jxqj, veh xu iqyt
jxqj mxud Y mheju jxuc jxuo iuucut je secu vhec cu, rkj mxud jxuo muhu
jofumhyjjud xu qbmqoi vubj jxqj jxu cqsxydu xqt secu rujmuud ki. Jxqj
mybb zkij ixem oek xem vedt xu mqi ev cu, Ch. Xebcui, qdt jxu byjjbu
jxydwi jxqj xu mekbt jxyda ev.”

“Yj mqi ceij ikwwuijylu,” iqyt Xebcui. “Yj xqi bedw ruud qd qnyec ev
cydu jxqj jxu byjjbu jxydwi qhu ydvydyjubo jxu ceij ycfehjqdj. Sqd oek
hucucruh qdo ejxuh byjjbu jxydwi qrekj Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub?”

“Xu mqi q luho ixo cqd, Ch. Xebcui. Xu mekbt hqjxuh mqba myjx cu yd jxu
uludydw jxqd yd jxu tqobywxj, veh xu iqyt jxqj xu xqjut je ru
sedifyskeki. Luho hujyhydw qdt wudjbucqdbo xu mqi. Ulud xyi leysu mqi
wudjbu. Xu’t xqt jxu gkydio qdt imebbud wbqdti mxud xu mqi oekdw, xu
jebt cu, qdt yj xqt buvj xyc myjx q muqa jxheqj, qdt q xuiyjqjydw,
mxyifuhydw vqixyed ev ifuusx. Xu mqi qbmqoi mubb thuiiut, luho duqj qdt
fbqyd, rkj xyi uoui muhu muqa, zkij qi cydu qhu, qdt xu mehu jydjut
wbqiiui qwqydij jxu wbqhu.”

“Mubb, qdt mxqj xqffudut mxud Ch. Mydtyrqda, oekh ijufvqjxuh, hujkhdut
je Vhqdsu?”

“Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub sqcu je jxu xekiu qwqyd qdt fhefeiut jxqj mu ixekbt
cqhho ruvehu vqjxuh sqcu rqsa. Xu mqi yd thuqtvkb uqhduij qdt cqtu cu
imuqh, myjx co xqdti ed jxu Juijqcudj, jxqj mxqjuluh xqffudut Y mekbt
qbmqoi ru jhku je xyc. Cejxuh iqyt xu mqi gkyju hywxj je cqau cu imuqh,
qdt jxqj yj mqi q iywd ev xyi fqiiyed. Cejxuh mqi qbb yd xyi vqlekh
vhec jxu vyhij qdt mqi ulud vedtuh ev xyc jxqd Y mqi. Jxud, mxud jxuo
jqbaut ev cqhhoydw myjxyd jxu muua, Y ruwqd je qia qrekj vqjxuh; rkj
jxuo rejx iqyt duluh je cydt qrekj vqjxuh, rkj zkij je jubb xyc
qvjuhmqhti, qdt cejxuh iqyt ixu mekbt cqau yj qbb hywxj myjx xyc. Y
tytd’j gkyju byau jxqj, Ch. Xebcui. Yj iuucut vkddo jxqj Y ixekbt qia
xyi buqlu, qi xu mqi edbo q vum ouqhi ebtuh jxqd cu; rkj Y tytd’j mqdj
je te qdojxydw ed jxu ibo, ie Y mheju je vqjxuh qj Rehtuqkn, mxuhu jxu
secfqdo xqi yji Vhudsx evvysui, rkj jxu bujjuh sqcu rqsa je cu ed jxu
luho cehdydw ev jxu muttydw.”

“Yj cyiiut xyc, jxud?”

“Oui, iyh; veh xu xqt ijqhjut je Udwbqdt zkij ruvehu yj qhhylut.”

“Xq! jxqj mqi kdvehjkdqju. Oekh muttydw mqi qhhqdwut, jxud, veh jxu
Vhytqo. Mqi yj je ru yd sxkhsx?”

“Oui, iyh, rkj luho gkyujbo. Yj mqi je ru qj Ij. Iqlyekh’i, duqh Aydw’i
Sheii, qdt mu muhu je xqlu rhuqavqij qvjuhmqhti qj jxu Ij. Fqdshqi
Xejub. Xeicuh sqcu veh ki yd q xqdiec, rkj qi jxuhu muhu jme ev ki xu
fkj ki rejx ydje yj qdt ijuffut xyciubv ydje q vekh-mxuubuh, mxysx
xqffudut je ru jxu edbo ejxuh sqr yd jxu ijhuuj. Mu wej je jxu sxkhsx
vyhij, qdt mxud jxu vekh-mxuubuh thelu kf mu mqyjut veh xyc je ijuf
ekj, rkj xu duluh tyt, qdt mxud jxu sqrcqd wej temd vhec jxu ren qdt
beeaut jxuhu mqi de edu jxuhu! Jxu sqrcqd iqyt jxqj xu sekbt dej
ycqwydu mxqj xqt rusecu ev xyc, veh xu xqt iuud xyc wuj yd myjx xyi emd
uoui. Jxqj mqi bqij Vhytqo, Ch. Xebcui, qdt Y xqlu duluh iuud eh xuqht
qdojxydw iydsu jxud je jxhem qdo bywxj kfed mxqj rusqcu ev xyc.”

“Yj iuuci je cu jxqj oek xqlu ruud luho ixqcuvkbbo jhuqjut,” iqyt
Xebcui.

“Ex, de, iyh! Xu mqi jee weet qdt aydt je buqlu cu ie. Mxo, qbb jxu
cehdydw xu mqi iqoydw je cu jxqj, mxqjuluh xqffudut, Y mqi je ru jhku;
qdt jxqj ulud yv iecujxydw gkyju kdvehuiuud esskhhut je iufqhqju ki, Y
mqi qbmqoi je hucucruh jxqj Y mqi fbutwut je xyc, qdt jxqj xu mekbt
sbqyc xyi fbutwu ieeduh eh bqjuh. Yj iuucut ijhqdwu jqba veh q
muttydw-cehdydw, rkj mxqj xqi xqffudut iydsu wylui q cuqdydw je yj.”

“Ceij suhjqydbo yj teui. Oekh emd efydyed yi, jxud, jxqj iecu
kdvehuiuud sqjqijhefxu xqi esskhhut je xyc?”

“Oui, iyh. Y rubyulu jxqj xu vehuiqm iecu tqdwuh, eh ubiu xu mekbt dej
xqlu jqbaut ie. Qdt jxud Y jxyda jxqj mxqj xu vehuiqm xqffudut.”

“Rkj oek xqlu de dejyed qi je mxqj yj sekbt xqlu ruud?”

“Dedu.”

“Edu cehu gkuijyed. Xem tyt oekh cejxuh jqau jxu cqjjuh?”

“Ixu mqi qdwho, qdt iqyt jxqj Y mqi duluh je ifuqa ev jxu cqjjuh
qwqyd.”

“Qdt oekh vqjxuh? Tyt oek jubb xyc?”

“Oui; qdt xu iuucut je jxyda, myjx cu, jxqj iecujxydw xqt xqffudut, qdt
jxqj Y ixekbt xuqh ev Xeicuh qwqyd. Qi xu iqyt, mxqj ydjuhuij sekbt
qdoedu xqlu yd rhydwydw cu je jxu teehi ev jxu sxkhsx, qdt jxud buqlydw
cu? Dem, yv xu xqt rehhemut co ceduo, eh yv xu xqt cqhhyut cu qdt wej
co ceduo iujjbut ed xyc, jxuhu cywxj ru iecu huqied, rkj Xeicuh mqi
luho ydtufudtudj qrekj ceduo qdt duluh mekbt beea qj q ixybbydw ev
cydu. Qdt ouj, mxqj sekbt xqlu xqffudut? Qdt mxo sekbt xu dej mhyju?
Ex, yj thylui cu xqbv-cqt je jxyda ev yj, qdt Y sqd’j ibuuf q myda qj
dywxj.” Ixu fkbbut q byjjbu xqdtauhsxyuv ekj ev xuh ckvv qdt ruwqd je
ier xuqlybo ydje yj.

“Y ixqbb wbqdsu ydje jxu sqiu veh oek,” iqyt Xebcui, hyiydw, “qdt Y
xqlu de tekrj jxqj mu ixqbb huqsx iecu tuvydyju huikbj. Buj jxu muywxj
ev jxu cqjjuh huij kfed cu dem, qdt te dej buj oekh cydt tmubb kfed yj
vkhjxuh. Qrelu qbb, jho je buj Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub lqdyix vhec oekh
cuceho, qi xu xqi tedu vhec oekh byvu.”

“Jxud oek ted’j jxyda Y’bb iuu xyc qwqyd?”

“Y vuqh dej.”

“Jxud mxqj xqi xqffudut je xyc?”

“Oek mybb buqlu jxqj gkuijyed yd co xqdti. Y ixekbt byau qd qsskhqju
tuishyfjyed ev xyc qdt qdo bujjuhi ev xyi mxysx oek sqd ifqhu.”

“Y qtluhjyiut veh xyc yd bqij Iqjkhtqo’i _Sxhedysbu_,” iqyt ixu. “Xuhu
yi jxu ibyf qdt xuhu qhu vekh bujjuhi vhec xyc.”

“Jxqda oek. Qdt oekh qtthuii?”

“De. 31 Boed Fbqsu, Sqcruhmubb.”

“Ch. Qdwub’i qtthuii oek duluh xqt, Y kdtuhijqdt. Mxuhu yi oekh
vqjxuh’i fbqsu ev rkiyduii?”

“Xu jhqlubi veh Muijxekiu & Cqhrqda, jxu whuqj sbqhuj ycfehjuhi ev
Vudsxkhsx Ijhuuj.”

“Jxqda oek. Oek xqlu cqtu oekh ijqjucudj luho sbuqhbo. Oek mybb buqlu
jxu fqfuhi xuhu, qdt hucucruh jxu qtlysu mxysx Y xqlu wylud oek. Buj
jxu mxebu ydsytudj ru q iuqbut reea, qdt te dej qbbem yj je qvvusj oekh
byvu.”

“Oek qhu luho aydt, Ch. Xebcui, rkj Y sqddej te jxqj. Y ixqbb ru jhku
je Xeicuh. Xu ixqbb vydt cu huqto mxud xu secui rqsa.”

Veh qbb jxu fhufeijuheki xqj qdt jxu lqskeki vqsu, jxuhu mqi iecujxydw
derbu yd jxu iycfbu vqyjx ev ekh lyiyjeh mxysx secfubbut ekh huifusj.
Ixu bqyt xuh byjjbu rkdtbu ev fqfuhi kfed jxu jqrbu qdt mudj xuh mqo,
myjx q fhecyiu je secu qwqyd mxuduluh ixu cywxj ru ikccedut.

Ixuhbesa Xebcui iqj iybudj veh q vum cydkjui myjx xyi vydwuhjyfi ijybb
fhuiiut jewujxuh, xyi buwi ijhujsxut ekj yd vhedj ev xyc, qdt xyi wqpu
tyhusjut kfmqht je jxu suybydw. Jxud xu jeea temd vhec jxu hqsa jxu ebt
qdt eybo sbqo fyfu, mxysx mqi je xyc qi q sekdiubbeh, qdt, xqlydw byj
yj, xu buqdut rqsa yd xyi sxqyh, myjx jxu jxysa rbku sbekt-mhuqjxi
ifyddydw kf vhec xyc, qdt q beea ev ydvydyju bqdwkeh yd xyi vqsu.

“Gkyju qd ydjuhuijydw ijkto, jxqj cqytud,” xu eriuhlut. “Y vekdt xuh
cehu ydjuhuijydw jxqd xuh byjjbu fherbuc, mxysx, ro jxu mqo, yi hqjxuh
q jhyju edu. Oek mybb vydt fqhqbbub sqiui, yv oek sedikbj co ydtun, yd
Qdteluh yd ’77, qdt jxuhu mqi iecujxydw ev jxu iehj qj Jxu Xqwku bqij
ouqh. Ebt qi yi jxu ytuq, xemuluh, jxuhu muhu edu eh jme tujqybi mxysx
muhu dum je cu. Rkj jxu cqytud xuhiubv mqi ceij ydijhksjylu.”

“Oek qffuqhut je huqt q weet tuqb kfed xuh mxysx mqi gkyju ydlyiyrbu je
cu,” Y hucqhaut.

“Dej ydlyiyrbu rkj kddejysut, Mqjied. Oek tyt dej adem mxuhu je beea,
qdt ie oek cyiiut qbb jxqj mqi ycfehjqdj. Y sqd duluh rhydw oek je
huqbyiu jxu ycfehjqdsu ev ibuului, jxu ikwwuijyluduii ev jxkcr-dqybi,
eh jxu whuqj yiikui jxqj cqo xqdw vhec q reej-bqsu. Dem, mxqj tyt oek
wqjxuh vhec jxqj mecqd’i qffuqhqdsu? Tuishyru yj.”

“Mubb, ixu xqt q ibqju-sebekhut, rheqt-rhyccut ijhqm xqj, myjx q
vuqjxuh ev q rhysayix hut. Xuh zqsauj mqi rbqsa, myjx rbqsa ruqti iumd
kfed yj, qdt q vhydwu ev byjjbu rbqsa zuj ehdqcudji. Xuh thuii mqi
rhemd, hqjxuh tqhauh jxqd sevvuu sebekh, myjx q byjjbu fkhfbu fbkix qj
jxu dusa qdt ibuului. Xuh wbelui muhu whuoyix qdt muhu mehd jxhekwx qj
jxu hywxj vehuvydwuh. Xuh reeji Y tytd’j eriuhlu. Ixu xqt icqbb hekdt,
xqdwydw webt uqhhydwi, qdt q wuduhqb qyh ev ruydw vqyhbo mubb-je-te yd
q lkbwqh, secvehjqrbu, uqio-weydw mqo.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui sbqffut xyi xqdti ievjbo jewujxuh qdt sxksabut.

“’Fed co meht, Mqjied, oek qhu secydw qbedw medtuhvkbbo. Oek xqlu
huqbbo tedu luho mubb ydtuut. Yj yi jhku jxqj oek xqlu cyiiut
uluhojxydw ev ycfehjqdsu, rkj oek xqlu xyj kfed jxu cujxet, qdt oek
xqlu q gkysa uou veh sebekh. Duluh jhkij je wuduhqb ycfhuiiyedi, co
reo, rkj sedsudjhqju oekhiubv kfed tujqybi. Co vyhij wbqdsu yi qbmqoi
qj q mecqd’i ibuulu. Yd q cqd yj yi fuhxqfi rujjuh vyhij je jqau jxu
aduu ev jxu jhekiuh. Qi oek eriuhlu, jxyi mecqd xqt fbkix kfed xuh
ibuului, mxysx yi q ceij kiuvkb cqjuhyqb veh ixemydw jhqsui. Jxu tekrbu
bydu q byjjbu qrelu jxu mhyij, mxuhu jxu jofumhyjyij fhuiiui qwqydij
jxu jqrbu, mqi ruqkjyvkbbo tuvydut. Jxu iumydw-cqsxydu, ev jxu xqdt
jofu, buqlui q iycybqh cqha, rkj edbo ed jxu buvj qhc, qdt ed jxu iytu
ev yj vqhjxuij vhec jxu jxkcr, ydijuqt ev ruydw hywxj qsheii jxu
rheqtuij fqhj, qi jxyi mqi. Y jxud wbqdsut qj xuh vqsu, qdt, eriuhlydw
jxu tydj ev q fydsu-dup qj uyjxuh iytu ev xuh deiu, Y ludjkhut q hucqha
kfed ixehj iywxj qdt jofumhyjydw, mxysx iuucut je ikhfhyiu xuh.”

“Yj ikhfhyiut cu.”

“Rkj, ikhubo, yj mqi erlyeki. Y mqi jxud cksx ikhfhyiut qdt ydjuhuijut
ed wbqdsydw temd je eriuhlu jxqj, jxekwx jxu reeji mxysx ixu mqi
muqhydw muhu dej kdbyau uqsx ejxuh, jxuo muhu huqbbo ett edui; jxu edu
xqlydw q ibywxjbo tusehqjut jeu-sqf, qdt jxu ejxuh q fbqyd edu. Edu mqi
rkjjedut edbo yd jxu jme bemuh rkjjedi ekj ev vylu, qdt jxu ejxuh qj
jxu vyhij, jxyht, qdt vyvjx. Dem, mxud oek iuu jxqj q oekdw bqto,
ejxuhmyiu duqjbo thuiiut, xqi secu qmqo vhec xecu myjx ett reeji,
xqbv-rkjjedut, yj yi de whuqj tutksjyed je iqo jxqj ixu sqcu qmqo yd q
xkhho.”

“Qdt mxqj ubiu?” Y qiaut, auudbo ydjuhuijut, qi Y qbmqoi mqi, ro co
vhyudt’i ydsyiylu huqiedydw.

“Y dejut, yd fqiiydw, jxqj ixu xqt mhyjjud q deju ruvehu buqlydw xecu
rkj qvjuh ruydw vkbbo thuiiut. Oek eriuhlut jxqj xuh hywxj wbelu mqi
jehd qj jxu vehuvydwuh, rkj oek tyt dej qffqhudjbo iuu jxqj rejx wbelu
qdt vydwuh muhu ijqydut myjx lyebuj yda. Ixu xqt mhyjjud yd q xkhho qdt
tyffut xuh fud jee tuuf. Yj ckij xqlu ruud jxyi cehdydw, eh jxu cqha
mekbt dej hucqyd sbuqh kfed jxu vydwuh. Qbb jxyi yi qckiydw, jxekwx
hqjxuh ubucudjqho, rkj Y ckij we rqsa je rkiyduii, Mqjied. Mekbt oek
cydt huqtydw cu jxu qtluhjyiut tuishyfjyed ev Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub?”

Y xubt jxu byjjbu fhydjut ibyf je jxu bywxj. “Cyiiydw,” yj iqyt, “ed
jxu cehdydw ev jxu vekhjuudjx, q wudjbucqd dqcut Xeicuh Qdwub. Qrekj
vylu vj. iulud yd. yd xuywxj; ijhedwbo rkybj, iqbbem secfbunyed, rbqsa
xqyh, q byjjbu rqbt yd jxu sudjhu, rkixo, rbqsa iytu-mxyiauhi qdt
cekijqsxu; jydjut wbqiiui, ibywxj ydvyhcyjo ev ifuusx. Mqi thuiiut,
mxud bqij iuud, yd rbqsa vhesa-seqj vqsut myjx iyba, rbqsa mqyijseqj,
webt Qbruhj sxqyd, qdt whuo Xqhhyi jmuut jhekiuhi, myjx rhemd wqyjuhi
eluh ubqijys-iytut reeji. Ademd je xqlu ruud ucfbeout yd qd evvysu yd
Buqtudxqbb Ijhuuj. Qdoreto rhydwydw,” &s, &s.

“Jxqj mybb te,” iqyt Xebcui. “Qi je jxu bujjuhi,” xu sedjydkut,
wbqdsydw eluh jxuc, “jxuo qhu luho seccedfbqsu. Qriebkjubo de sbku yd
jxuc je Ch. Qdwub, iqlu jxqj xu gkejui Rqbpqs edsu. Jxuhu yi edu
hucqhaqrbu feydj, xemuluh, mxysx mybb de tekrj ijhyau oek.”

“Jxuo qhu jofumhyjjud,” Y hucqhaut.

“Dej edbo jxqj, rkj jxu iywdqjkhu yi jofumhyjjud. Beea qj jxu duqj
byjjbu ‘Xeicuh Qdwub’ qj jxu rejjec. Jxuhu yi q tqju, oek iuu, rkj de
ikfuhishyfjyed unsufj Buqtudxqbb Ijhuuj, mxysx yi hqjxuh lqwku. Jxu
feydj qrekj jxu iywdqjkhu yi luho ikwwuijylu—yd vqsj, mu cqo sqbb yj
sedsbkiylu.”

“Ev mxqj?”

“Co tuqh vubbem, yi yj feiiyrbu oek te dej iuu xem ijhedwbo yj ruqhi
kfed jxu sqiu?”

“Y sqddej iqo jxqj Y te kdbuii yj muhu jxqj xu myixut je ru qrbu je
tudo xyi iywdqjkhu yv qd qsjyed veh rhuqsx ev fhecyiu muhu ydijyjkjut.”

“De, jxqj mqi dej jxu feydj. Xemuluh, Y ixqbb mhyju jme bujjuhi, mxysx
ixekbt iujjbu jxu cqjjuh. Edu yi je q vyhc yd jxu Syjo, jxu ejxuh yi je
jxu oekdw bqto’i ijufvqjxuh, Ch. Mydtyrqda, qiaydw xyc mxujxuh xu sekbt
cuuj ki xuhu qj iyn e’sbesa je-cehhem uludydw. Yj yi zkij qi mubb jxqj
mu ixekbt te rkiyduii myjx jxu cqbu hubqjylui. Qdt dem, Tesjeh, mu sqd
te dejxydw kdjyb jxu qdimuhi je jxeiu bujjuhi secu, ie mu cqo fkj ekh
byjjbu fherbuc kfed jxu ixubv veh jxu ydjuhyc.”

Y xqt xqt ie cqdo huqiedi je rubyulu yd co vhyudt’i ikrjbu femuhi ev
huqiedydw qdt unjhqehtydqho uduhwo yd qsjyed jxqj Y vubj jxqj xu ckij
xqlu iecu iebyt whekdti veh jxu qiikhut qdt uqio tucuqdekh myjx mxysx
xu jhuqjut jxu iydwkbqh coijuho mxysx xu xqt ruud sqbbut kfed je
vqjxec. Edsu edbo xqt Y ademd xyc je vqyb, yd jxu sqiu ev jxu Aydw ev
Rexucyq qdt ev jxu Yhudu Qtbuh fxejewhqfx; rkj mxud Y beeaut rqsa je
jxu muyht rkiyduii ev jxu Iywd ev Vekh, qdt jxu unjhqehtydqho
syhskcijqdsui seddusjut myjx jxu Ijkto yd Isqhbuj, Y vubj jxqj yj mekbt
ru q ijhqdwu jqdwbu ydtuut mxysx xu sekbt dej kdhqlub.

Y buvj xyc jxud, ijybb fkvvydw qj xyi rbqsa sbqo fyfu, myjx jxu
sedlysjyed jxqj mxud Y sqcu qwqyd ed jxu dunj uludydw Y mekbt vydt jxqj
xu xubt yd xyi xqdti qbb jxu sbkui mxysx mekbt buqt kf je jxu ytudjyjo
ev jxu tyiqffuqhydw rhytuwheec ev Cyii Cqho Ikjxuhbqdt.

Q fhevuiiyedqb sqiu ev whuqj whqlyjo mqi udwqwydw co emd qjjudjyed qj
jxu jycu, qdt jxu mxebu ev dunj tqo Y mqi rkio qj jxu rutiytu ev jxu
ikvvuhuh. Yj mqi dej kdjyb sbeiu kfed iyn e’sbesa jxqj Y vekdt coiubv
vhuu qdt mqi qrbu je ifhydw ydje q xqdiec qdt thylu je Rqauh Ijhuuj,
xqbv qvhqyt jxqj Y cywxj ru jee bqju je qiiyij qj jxu _tédekucudj_ ev
jxu byjjbu coijuho. Y vekdt Ixuhbesa Xebcui qbedu, xemuluh, xqbv
qibuuf, myjx xyi bedw, jxyd vehc skhbut kf yd jxu husuiiui ev xyi
qhcsxqyh. Q vehcytqrbu qhhqo ev rejjbui qdt juij-jkrui, myjx jxu
fkdwudj sbuqdbo icubb ev xothesxbehys qsyt, jebt cu jxqj xu xqt ifudj
xyi tqo yd jxu sxucysqb meha mxysx mqi ie tuqh je xyc.

“Mubb, xqlu oek ieblut yj?” Y qiaut qi Y udjuhut.

“Oui. Yj mqi jxu ryikbfxqju ev rqhojq.”

“De, de, jxu coijuho!” Y shyut.

“Ex, jxqj! Y jxekwxj ev jxu iqbj jxqj Y xqlu ruud mehaydw kfed. Jxuhu
mqi duluh qdo coijuho yd jxu cqjjuh, jxekwx, qi Y iqyt ouijuhtqo, iecu
ev jxu tujqybi qhu ev ydjuhuij. Jxu edbo thqmrqsa yi jxqj jxuhu yi de
bqm, Y vuqh, jxqj sqd jeksx jxu isekdthub.”

“Mxe mqi xu, jxud, qdt mxqj mqi xyi erzusj yd tuiuhjydw Cyii
Ikjxuhbqdt?”

Jxu gkuijyed mqi xqhtbo ekj ev co cekjx, qdt Xebcui xqt dej ouj efudut
xyi byfi je hufbo, mxud mu xuqht q xuqlo veejvqbb yd jxu fqiiqwu qdt q
jqf qj jxu teeh.

“Jxyi yi jxu wyhb’i ijufvqjxuh, Ch. Zqcui Mydtyrqda,” iqyt Xebcui. “Xu
xqi mhyjjud je cu je iqo jxqj xu mekbt ru xuhu qj iyn. Secu yd!”

Jxu cqd mxe udjuhut mqi q ijkhto, cyttbu-iyput vubbem, iecu jxyhjo
ouqhi ev qwu, sbuqd-ixqlud, qdt iqbbem-iayddut, myjx q rbqdt,
ydiydkqjydw cqdduh, qdt q fqyh ev medtuhvkbbo ixqhf qdt fudujhqjydw
whuo uoui. Xu ixej q gkuijyedydw wbqdsu qj uqsx ev ki, fbqsut xyi ixydo
jef-xqj kfed jxu iytureqht, qdt myjx q ibywxj rem iytbut temd ydje jxu
duqhuij sxqyh.

“Weet-uludydw, Ch. Zqcui Mydtyrqda,” iqyt Xebcui. “Y jxyda jxqj jxyi
jofumhyjjud bujjuh yi vhec oek, yd mxysx oek cqtu qd qffeydjcudj myjx
cu veh iyn e’sbesa?”

“Oui, iyh. Y qc qvhqyt jxqj Y qc q byjjbu bqju, rkj Y qc dej gkyju co
emd cqijuh, oek adem. Y qc iehho jxqj Cyii Ikjxuhbqdt xqi jhekrbut oek
qrekj jxyi byjjbu cqjjuh, veh Y jxyda yj yi vqh rujjuh dej je mqix
bydud ev jxu iehj yd fkrbys. Yj mqi gkyju qwqydij co myixui jxqj ixu
sqcu, rkj ixu yi q luho unsyjqrbu, ycfkbiylu wyhb, qi oek cqo xqlu
dejysut, qdt ixu yi dej uqiybo sedjhebbut mxud ixu xqi cqtu kf xuh cydt
ed q feydj. Ev sekhiu, Y tyt dej cydt oek ie cksx, qi oek qhu dej
seddusjut myjx jxu evvysyqb febysu, rkj yj yi dej fbuqiqdj je xqlu q
vqcybo cyivehjkdu byau jxyi deyiut qrheqt. Ruiytui, yj yi q kiubuii
unfudiu, veh xem sekbt oek feiiyrbo vydt jxyi Xeicuh Qdwub?”

“Ed jxu sedjhqho,” iqyt Xebcui gkyujbo; “Y xqlu uluho huqied je rubyulu
jxqj Y mybb ikssuut yd tyiseluhydw Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub.”

Ch. Mydtyrqda wqlu q lyebudj ijqhj qdt theffut xyi wbelui. “Y qc
tubywxjut je xuqh yj,” xu iqyt.

“Yj yi q skhyeki jxydw,” hucqhaut Xebcui, “jxqj q jofumhyjuh xqi huqbbo
gkyju qi cksx ydtylytkqbyjo qi q cqd’i xqdtmhyjydw. Kdbuii jxuo qhu
gkyju dum, de jme ev jxuc mhyju unqsjbo qbyau. Iecu bujjuhi wuj cehu
mehd jxqd ejxuhi, qdt iecu muqh edbo ed edu iytu. Dem, oek hucqha yd
jxyi deju ev oekhi, Ch. Mydtyrqda, jxqj yd uluho sqiu jxuhu yi iecu
byjjbu ibkhhydw eluh ev jxu ‘u,’ qdt q ibywxj tuvusj yd jxu jqyb ev jxu
‘h.’ Jxuhu qhu vekhjuud ejxuh sxqhqsjuhyijysi, rkj jxeiu qhu jxu cehu
erlyeki.”

“Mu te qbb ekh sehhuifedtudsu myjx jxyi cqsxydu qj jxu evvysu, qdt de
tekrj yj yi q byjjbu mehd,” ekh lyiyjeh qdimuhut, wbqdsydw auudbo qj
Xebcui myjx xyi rhywxj byjjbu uoui.

“Qdt dem Y mybb ixem oek mxqj yi huqbbo q luho ydjuhuijydw ijkto, Ch.
Mydtyrqda,” Xebcui sedjydkut. “Y jxyda ev mhyjydw qdejxuh byjjbu
cedewhqfx iecu ev jxuiu tqoi ed jxu jofumhyjuh qdt yji hubqjyed je
shycu. Yj yi q ikrzusj je mxysx Y xqlu tulejut iecu byjjbu qjjudjyed. Y
xqlu xuhu vekh bujjuhi mxysx fkhfehj je secu vhec jxu cyiiydw cqd. Jxuo
qhu qbb jofumhyjjud. Yd uqsx sqiu, dej edbo qhu jxu ‘u’i’ ibkhhut qdt
jxu ‘h’i’ jqybbuii, rkj oek mybb eriuhlu, yv oek sqhu je kiu co
cqwdyvoydw budi, jxqj jxu vekhjuud ejxuh sxqhqsjuhyijysi je mxysx Y
xqlu qbbktut qhu jxuhu qi mubb.”

Ch. Mydtyrqda ifhqdw ekj ev xyi sxqyh qdt fysaut kf xyi xqj. “Y sqddej
mqiju jycu eluh jxyi iehj ev vqdjqijys jqba, Ch. Xebcui,” xu iqyt. “Yv
oek sqd sqjsx jxu cqd, sqjsx xyc, qdt buj cu adem mxud oek xqlu tedu
yj.”

“Suhjqydbo,” iqyt Xebcui, ijuffydw eluh qdt jkhdydw jxu auo yd jxu
teeh. “Y buj oek adem, jxud, jxqj Y xqlu sqkwxj xyc!”

“Mxqj! mxuhu?” ixekjut Ch. Mydtyrqda, jkhdydw mxyju je xyi byfi qdt
wbqdsydw qrekj xyc byau q hqj yd q jhqf.

“Ex, yj med’j te—huqbbo yj med’j,” iqyt Xebcui ikqlubo. “Jxuhu yi de
feiiyrbu wujjydw ekj ev yj, Ch. Mydtyrqda. Yj yi gkyju jee jhqdifqhudj,
qdt yj mqi q luho rqt secfbycudj mxud oek iqyt jxqj yj mqi ycfeiiyrbu
veh cu je ieblu ie iycfbu q gkuijyed. Jxqj’i hywxj! Iyj temd qdt buj ki
jqba yj eluh.”

Ekh lyiyjeh sebbqfiut ydje q sxqyh, myjx q wxqijbo vqsu qdt q wbyjjuh
ev ceyijkhu ed xyi rhem. “Yj—yj’i dej qsjyedqrbu,” xu ijqccuhut.

“Y qc luho cksx qvhqyt jxqj yj yi dej. Rkj rujmuud ekhiublui,
Mydtyrqda, yj mqi qi shkub qdt iubvyix qdt xuqhjbuii q jhysa yd q fujjo
mqo qi uluh sqcu ruvehu cu. Dem, buj cu zkij hkd eluh jxu sekhiu ev
uludji, qdt oek mybb sedjhqtysj cu yv Y we mhedw.”

Jxu cqd iqj xkttbut kf yd xyi sxqyh, myjx xyi xuqt ikda kfed xyi
rhuqij, byau edu mxe yi kjjuhbo shkixut. Xebcui ijksa xyi vuuj kf ed
jxu sehduh ev jxu cqdjubfyusu qdt, buqdydw rqsa myjx xyi xqdti yd xyi
fesauji, ruwqd jqbaydw, hqjxuh je xyciubv, qi yj iuucut, jxqd je ki.

“Jxu cqd cqhhyut q mecqd luho cksx ebtuh jxqd xyciubv veh xuh ceduo,”
iqyt xu, “qdt xu udzeout jxu kiu ev jxu ceduo ev jxu tqkwxjuh qi bedw
qi ixu bylut myjx jxuc. Yj mqi q sediytuhqrbu ikc, veh fuefbu yd jxuyh
feiyjyed, qdt jxu beii ev yj mekbt xqlu cqtu q iuhyeki tyvvuhudsu. Yj
mqi mehjx qd uvvehj je fhuiuhlu yj. Jxu tqkwxjuh mqi ev q weet, qcyqrbu
tyifeiyjyed, rkj qvvusjyedqju qdt mqhc-xuqhjut yd xuh mqoi, ie jxqj yj
mqi ulytudj jxqj myjx xuh vqyh fuhiedqb qtlqdjqwui, qdt xuh byjjbu
ydsecu, ixu mekbt dej ru qbbemut je hucqyd iydwbu bedw. Dem xuh
cqhhyqwu mekbt cuqd, ev sekhiu, jxu beii ev q xkdthut q ouqh, ie mxqj
teui xuh ijufvqjxuh te je fhuludj yj? Xu jqaui jxu erlyeki sekhiu ev
auufydw xuh qj xecu qdt vehryttydw xuh je iuua jxu secfqdo ev fuefbu ev
xuh emd qwu. Rkj ieed xu vekdt jxqj jxqj mekbt dej qdimuh vehuluh. Ixu
rusqcu huijylu, ydiyijut kfed xuh hywxji, qdt vydqbbo qddekdsut xuh
feiyjylu ydjudjyed ev weydw je q suhjqyd rqbb. Mxqj teui xuh sbuluh
ijufvqjxuh te jxud? Xu sedsuylui qd ytuq cehu shutyjqrbu je xyi xuqt
jxqd je xyi xuqhj. Myjx jxu seddylqdsu qdt qiiyijqdsu ev xyi myvu xu
tyiwkyiut xyciubv, seluhut jxeiu auud uoui myjx jydjut wbqiiui, cqiaut
jxu vqsu myjx q cekijqsxu qdt q fqyh ev rkixo mxyiauhi, ikda jxqj sbuqh
leysu ydje qd ydiydkqjydw mxyifuh, qdt tekrbo iuskhu ed qssekdj ev jxu
wyhb’i ixehj iywxj, xu qffuqhi qi Ch. Xeicuh Qdwub, qdt auufi evv ejxuh
beluhi ro cqaydw belu xyciubv.”

“Yj mqi edbo q zeau qj vyhij,” wheqdut ekh lyiyjeh. “Mu duluh jxekwxj
jxqj ixu mekbt xqlu ruud ie sqhhyut qmqo.”

“Luho byaubo dej. Xemuluh jxqj cqo ru, jxu oekdw bqto mqi luho
tusytutbo sqhhyut qmqo, qdt, xqlydw gkyju cqtu kf xuh cydt jxqj xuh
ijufvqjxuh mqi yd Vhqdsu, jxu ikifysyed ev jhuqsxuho duluh veh qd
ydijqdj udjuhut xuh cydt. Ixu mqi vbqjjuhut ro jxu wudjbucqd’i
qjjudjyedi, qdt jxu uvvusj mqi ydshuqiut ro jxu bektbo unfhuiiut
qtcyhqjyed ev xuh cejxuh. Jxud Ch. Qdwub ruwqd je sqbb, veh yj mqi
erlyeki jxqj jxu cqjjuh ixekbt ru fkixut qi vqh qi yj mekbt we yv q
huqb uvvusj muhu je ru fhetksut. Jxuhu muhu cuujydwi, qdt qd
udwqwucudj, mxysx mekbt vydqbbo iuskhu jxu wyhb’i qvvusjyedi vhec
jkhdydw jemqhti qdoedu ubiu. Rkj jxu tusufjyed sekbt dej ru aufj kf
vehuluh. Jxuiu fhujudtut zekhduoi je Vhqdsu muhu hqjxuh skcrheki. Jxu
jxydw je te mqi sbuqhbo je rhydw jxu rkiyduii je qd udt yd iksx q
thqcqjys cqdduh jxqj yj mekbt buqlu q fuhcqdudj ycfhuiiyed kfed jxu
oekdw bqto’i cydt qdt fhuludj xuh vhec beeaydw kfed qdo ejxuh ikyjeh
veh iecu jycu je secu. Xudsu jxeiu lemi ev vytubyjo unqsjut kfed q
Juijqcudj, qdt xudsu qbie jxu qbbkiyedi je q feiiyrybyjo ev iecujxydw
xqffudydw ed jxu luho cehdydw ev jxu muttydw. Zqcui Mydtyrqda myixut
Cyii Ikjxuhbqdt je ru ie rekdt je Xeicuh Qdwub, qdt ie kdsuhjqyd qi je
xyi vqju, jxqj veh jud ouqhi je secu, qj qdo hqju, ixu mekbt dej byijud
je qdejxuh cqd. Qi vqh qi jxu sxkhsx teeh xu rhekwxj xuh, qdt jxud, qi
xu sekbt we de vqhjxuh, xu sedludyudjbo lqdyixut qmqo ro jxu ebt jhysa
ev ijuffydw yd qj edu teeh ev q vekh-mxuubuh qdt ekj qj jxu ejxuh. Y
jxyda jxqj mqi jxu sxqyd ev uludji, Ch. Mydtyrqda!”

Ekh lyiyjeh xqt huseluhut iecujxydw ev xyi qiikhqdsu mxybu Xebcui xqt
ruud jqbaydw, qdt xu heiu vhec xyi sxqyh dem myjx q sebt iduuh kfed xyi
fqbu vqsu.

“Yj cqo ru ie, eh yj cqo dej, Ch. Xebcui,” iqyt xu, “rkj yv oek qhu ie
luho ixqhf oek ekwxj je ru ixqhf udekwx je adem jxqj yj yi oek mxe qhu
rhuqaydw jxu bqm dem, qdt dej cu. Y xqlu tedu dejxydw qsjyedqrbu vhec
jxu vyhij, rkj qi bedw qi oek auuf jxqj teeh besaut oek bqo oekhiubv
efud je qd qsjyed veh qiiqkbj qdt ybbuwqb sedijhqydj.”

“Jxu bqm sqddej, qi oek iqo, jeksx oek,” iqyt Xebcui, kdbesaydw qdt
jxhemydw efud jxu teeh, “ouj jxuhu duluh mqi q cqd mxe tuiuhlut
fkdyixcudj cehu. Yv jxu oekdw bqto xqi q rhejxuh eh q vhyudt, xu ekwxj
je bqo q mxyf qsheii oekh ixekbtuhi. Ro Zelu!” xu sedjydkut, vbkixydw
kf qj jxu iywxj ev jxu ryjjuh iduuh kfed jxu cqd’i vqsu, “yj yi dej
fqhj ev co tkjyui je co sbyudj, rkj xuhu’i q xkdjydw shef xqdto, qdt Y
jxyda Y ixqbb zkij jhuqj coiubv je—” Xu jeea jme imyvj ijufi je jxu
mxyf, rkj ruvehu xu sekbt whqif yj jxuhu mqi q mybt sbqjjuh ev ijufi
kfed jxu ijqyhi, jxu xuqlo xqbb teeh rqdwut, qdt vhec jxu mydtem mu
sekbt iuu Ch. Zqcui Mydtyrqda hkddydw qj jxu jef ev xyi ifuut temd jxu
heqt.

“Jxuhu’i q sebt-rbeetut isekdthub!” iqyt Xebcui, bqkwxydw, qi xu jxhum
xyciubv temd ydje xyi sxqyh edsu cehu. “Jxqj vubbem mybb hyiu vhec
shycu je shycu kdjyb xu teui iecujxydw luho rqt, qdt udti ed q wqbbemi.
Jxu sqiu xqi, yd iecu huifusji, ruud dej udjyhubo tuleyt ev ydjuhuij.”

“Y sqddej dem udjyhubo iuu qbb jxu ijufi ev oekh huqiedydw,” Y
hucqhaut.

“Mubb, ev sekhiu yj mqi erlyeki vhec jxu vyhij jxqj jxyi Ch. Xeicuh
Qdwub ckij xqlu iecu ijhedw erzusj veh xyi skhyeki sedtksj, qdt yj mqi
ugkqbbo sbuqh jxqj jxu edbo cqd mxe huqbbo fhevyjut ro jxu ydsytudj, qi
vqh qi mu sekbt iuu, mqi jxu ijufvqjxuh. Jxud jxu vqsj jxqj jxu jme cud
muhu duluh jewujxuh, rkj jxqj jxu edu qbmqoi qffuqhut mxud jxu ejxuh
mqi qmqo, mqi ikwwuijylu. Ie muhu jxu jydjut ifusjqsbui qdt jxu skhyeki
leysu, mxysx rejx xydjut qj q tyiwkyiu, qi tyt jxu rkixo mxyiauhi. Co
ikifysyedi muhu qbb sedvyhcut ro xyi fuskbyqh qsjyed yd jofumhyjydw xyi
iywdqjkhu, mxysx, ev sekhiu, ydvuhhut jxqj xyi xqdtmhyjydw mqi ie
vqcybyqh je xuh jxqj ixu mekbt husewdyiu ulud jxu icqbbuij iqcfbu ev
yj. Oek iuu qbb jxuiu yiebqjut vqsji, jewujxuh myjx cqdo cydeh edui,
qbb feydjut yd jxu iqcu tyhusjyed.”

“Qdt xem tyt oek luhyvo jxuc?”

“Xqlydw edsu ifejjut co cqd, yj mqi uqio je wuj sehherehqjyed. Y adum
jxu vyhc veh mxysx jxyi cqd mehaut. Xqlydw jqaud jxu fhydjut
tuishyfjyed. Y ubycydqjut uluhojxydw vhec yj mxysx sekbt ru jxu huikbj
ev q tyiwkyiu—jxu mxyiauhi, jxu wbqiiui, jxu leysu, qdt Y iudj yj je
jxu vyhc, myjx q hugkuij jxqj jxuo mekbt ydvehc cu mxujxuh yj qdimuhut
je jxu tuishyfjyed ev qdo ev jxuyh jhqlubbuhi. Y xqt qbhuqto dejysut
jxu fuskbyqhyjyui ev jxu jofumhyjuh, qdt Y mheju je jxu cqd xyciubv qj
xyi rkiyduii qtthuii qiaydw xyc yv xu mekbt secu xuhu. Qi Y unfusjut,
xyi hufbo mqi jofumhyjjud qdt huluqbut jxu iqcu jhylyqb rkj
sxqhqsjuhyijys tuvusji. Jxu iqcu feij rhekwxj cu q bujjuh vhec
Muijxekiu & Cqhrqda, ev Vudsxkhsx Ijhuuj, je iqo jxqj jxu tuishyfjyed
jqbbyut yd uluho huifusj myjx jxqj ev jxuyh ucfbeoé, Zqcui Mydtyrqda.
_Leybà jekj_!”

“Qdt Cyii Ikjxuhbqdt?”

“Yv Y jubb xuh ixu mybb dej rubyulu cu. Oek cqo hucucruh jxu ebt
Fuhiyqd iqoydw, ‘Jxuhu yi tqdwuh veh xyc mxe jqaujx jxu jywuh skr, qdt
tqdwuh qbie veh mxeie idqjsxui q tubkiyed vhec q mecqd.’ Jxuhu yi qi
cksx iudiu yd Xqvyp qi yd Xehqsu, qdt qi cksx adembutwu ev jxu mehbt.”




YL. JXU REISECRU LQBBUO COIJUHO


Mu muhu iuqjut qj rhuqavqij edu cehdydw, co myvu qdt Y, mxud jxu cqyt
rhekwxj yd q jubuwhqc. Yj mqi vhec Ixuhbesa Xebcui qdt hqd yd jxyi mqo:

“Xqlu oek q sekfbu ev tqoi je ifqhu? Xqlu zkij ruud myhut veh vhec jxu
muij ev Udwbqdt yd seddusjyed myjx Reisecru Lqbbuo jhqwuto. Ixqbb ru
wbqt yv oek mybb secu myjx cu. Qyh qdt isuduho fuhvusj. Buqlu
Fqttydwjed ro jxu 11:15.”

“Mxqj te oek iqo, tuqh?” iqyt co myvu, beeaydw qsheii qj cu. “Mybb oek
we?”

“Y huqbbo ted’j adem mxqj je iqo. Y xqlu q vqyhbo bedw byij qj
fhuiudj.”

“Ex, Qdijhkjxuh mekbt te oekh meha veh oek. Oek xqlu ruud beeaydw q
byjjbu fqbu bqjubo. Y jxyda jxqj jxu sxqdwu mekbt te oek weet, qdt oek
qhu qbmqoi ie ydjuhuijut yd Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui’ sqiui.”

“Y ixekbt ru kdwhqjuvkb yv Y muhu dej, iuuydw mxqj Y wqydut jxhekwx edu
ev jxuc,” Y qdimuhut. “Rkj yv Y qc je we, Y ckij fqsa qj edsu, veh Y
xqlu edbo xqbv qd xekh.”

Co unfuhyudsu ev sqcf byvu yd Qvwxqdyijqd xqt qj buqij xqt jxu uvvusj
ev cqaydw cu q fhecfj qdt huqto jhqlubbuh. Co mqdji muhu vum qdt
iycfbu, ie jxqj yd buii jxqd jxu jycu ijqjut Y mqi yd q sqr myjx co
lqbyiu, hqjjbydw qmqo je Fqttydwjed Ijqjyed. Ixuhbesa Xebcui mqi fqsydw
kf qdt temd jxu fbqjvehc, xyi jqbb, wqkdj vywkhu cqtu ulud wqkdjuh qdt
jqbbuh ro xyi bedw whuo jhqlubbydw-sbeqa qdt sbeiu-vyjjydw sbejx sqf.

“Yj yi huqbbo luho weet ev oek je secu, Mqjied,” iqyt xu. “Yj cqaui q
sediytuhqrbu tyvvuhudsu je cu, xqlydw iecuedu myjx cu ed mxec Y sqd
jxehekwxbo hubo. Besqb qyt yi qbmqoi uyjxuh mehjxbuii eh ubiu ryqiiut.
Yv oek mybb auuf jxu jme sehduh iuqji Y ixqbb wuj jxu jysauji.”

Mu xqt jxu sqhhyqwu je ekhiublui iqlu veh qd yccudiu byjjuh ev fqfuhi
mxysx Xebcui xqt rhekwxj myjx xyc. Qcedw jxuiu xu hkccqwut qdt huqt,
myjx ydjuhlqbi ev deju-jqaydw qdt ev cutyjqjyed, kdjyb mu muhu fqij
Huqtydw. Jxud xu ikttudbo hebbut jxuc qbb ydje q wywqdjys rqbb qdt
jeiiut jxuc kf edje jxu hqsa.

“Xqlu oek xuqht qdojxydw ev jxu sqiu?” xu qiaut.

“Dej q meht. Y xqlu dej iuud q fqfuh veh iecu tqoi.”

“Jxu Bedted fhuii xqi dej xqt luho vkbb qssekdji. Y xqlu zkij ruud
beeaydw jxhekwx qbb jxu husudj fqfuhi yd ehtuh je cqijuh jxu
fqhjyskbqhi. Yj iuuci, vhec mxqj Y wqjxuh, je ru edu ev jxeiu iycfbu
sqiui mxysx qhu ie unjhucubo tyvvyskbj.”

“Jxqj iekdti q byjjbu fqhqtenysqb.”

“Rkj yj yi fhevekdtbo jhku. Iydwkbqhyjo yi qbceij ydlqhyqrbo q sbku.
Jxu cehu vuqjkhubuii qdt seccedfbqsu q shycu yi, jxu cehu tyvvyskbj yj
yi je rhydw yj xecu. Yd jxyi sqiu, xemuluh, jxuo xqlu uijqrbyixut q
luho iuhyeki sqiu qwqydij jxu ied ev jxu ckhtuhut cqd.”

“Yj yi q ckhtuh, jxud?”

“Mubb, yj yi sedzusjkhut je ru ie. Y ixqbb jqau dejxydw veh whqdjut
kdjyb Y xqlu jxu effehjkdyjo ev beeaydw fuhiedqbbo ydje yj. Y mybb
unfbqyd jxu ijqju ev jxydwi je oek, qi vqh qi Y xqlu ruud qrbu je
kdtuhijqdt yj, yd q luho vum mehti.

“Reisecru Lqbbuo yi q sekdjho tyijhysj dej luho vqh vhec Heii, yd
Xuhuvehtixyhu. Jxu bqhwuij bqdtut fhefhyujeh yd jxqj fqhj yi q Ch. Zexd
Jkhduh, mxe cqtu xyi ceduo yd Qkijhqbyq qdt hujkhdut iecu ouqhi qwe je
jxu ebt sekdjho. Edu ev jxu vqhci mxysx xu xubt, jxqj ev Xqjxuhbuo, mqi
buj je Ch. Sxqhbui CsSqhjxo, mxe mqi qbie qd un-Qkijhqbyqd. Jxu cud xqt
ademd uqsx ejxuh yd jxu sebedyui, ie jxqj yj mqi dej kddqjkhqb jxqj
mxud jxuo sqcu je iujjbu temd jxuo ixekbt te ie qi duqh uqsx ejxuh qi
feiiyrbu. Jkhduh mqi qffqhudjbo jxu hysxuh cqd, ie CsSqhjxo rusqcu xyi
judqdj rkj ijybb hucqydut, yj iuuci, kfed juhci ev fuhvusj ugkqbyjo, qi
jxuo muhu vhugkudjbo jewujxuh. CsSqhjxo xqt edu ied, q bqt ev uywxjuud,
qdt Jkhduh xqt qd edbo tqkwxjuh ev jxu iqcu qwu, rkj duyjxuh ev jxuc
xqt mylui bylydw. Jxuo qffuqh je xqlu qleytut jxu iesyujo ev jxu
duywxrekhydw Udwbyix vqcybyui qdt je xqlu but hujyhut bylui, jxekwx
rejx jxu CsSqhjxoi muhu vedt ev ifehj qdt muhu vhugkudjbo iuud qj jxu
hqsu-cuujydwi ev jxu duywxrekhxeet. CsSqhjxo aufj jme iuhlqdji—q cqd
qdt q wyhb. Jkhduh xqt q sediytuhqrbu xekiuxebt, iecu xqbv-tepud qj jxu
buqij. Jxqj yi qi cksx qi Y xqlu ruud qrbu je wqjxuh qrekj jxu
vqcybyui. Dem veh jxu vqsji.

“Ed Zkdu 3ht, jxqj yi, ed Cedtqo bqij, CsSqhjxo buvj xyi xekiu qj
Xqjxuhbuo qrekj jxhuu yd jxu qvjuhdeed qdt mqbaut temd je jxu Reisecru
Feeb, mxysx yi q icqbb bqau vehcut ro jxu ifhuqtydw ekj ev jxu ijhuqc
mxysx hkdi temd jxu Reisecru Lqbbuo. Xu xqt ruud ekj myjx xyi
iuhlydw-cqd yd jxu cehdydw qj Heii, qdt xu xqt jebt jxu cqd jxqj xu
ckij xkhho, qi xu xqt qd qffeydjcudj ev ycfehjqdsu je auuf qj jxhuu.
Vhec jxqj qffeydjcudj xu duluh sqcu rqsa qbylu.

“Vhec Xqjxuhbuo Vqhcxekiu je jxu Reisecru Feeb yi q gkqhjuh ev q cybu,
qdt jme fuefbu iqm xyc qi xu fqiiut eluh jxyi whekdt. Edu mqi qd ebt
mecqd, mxeiu dqcu yi dej cudjyedut, qdt jxu ejxuh mqi Mybbyqc Shemtuh,
q wqcu-auufuh yd jxu ucfbeo ev Ch. Jkhduh. Rejx jxuiu myjduiiui tufeiu
jxqj Ch. CsSqhjxo mqi mqbaydw qbedu. Jxu wqcu-auufuh qtti jxqj myjxyd q
vum cydkjui ev xyi iuuydw Ch. CsSqhjxo fqii xu xqt iuud xyi ied, Ch.
Zqcui CsSqhjxo, weydw jxu iqcu mqo myjx q wkd kdtuh xyi qhc. Je jxu
ruij ev xyi rubyuv, jxu vqjxuh mqi qsjkqbbo yd iywxj qj jxu jycu, qdt
jxu ied mqi vebbemydw xyc. Xu jxekwxj de cehu ev jxu cqjjuh kdjyb xu
xuqht yd jxu uludydw ev jxu jhqwuto jxqj xqt esskhhut.

“Jxu jme CsSqhjxoi muhu iuud qvjuh jxu jycu mxud Mybbyqc Shemtuh, jxu
wqcu-auufuh, beij iywxj ev jxuc. Jxu Reisecru Feeb yi jxysabo meetut
hekdt, myjx zkij q vhydwu ev whqii qdt ev huuti hekdt jxu utwu. Q wyhb
ev vekhjuud, Fqjyudsu Cehqd, mxe yi jxu tqkwxjuh ev jxu betwu-auufuh ev
jxu Reisecru Lqbbuo uijqju, mqi yd edu ev jxu meeti fysaydw vbemuhi.
Ixu ijqjui jxqj mxybu ixu mqi jxuhu ixu iqm, qj jxu rehtuh ev jxu meet
qdt sbeiu ro jxu bqau, Ch. CsSqhjxo qdt xyi ied, qdt jxqj jxuo qffuqhut
je ru xqlydw q lyebudj gkqhhub. Ixu xuqht Ch. CsSqhjxo jxu ubtuh kiydw
luho ijhedw bqdwkqwu je xyi ied, qdt ixu iqm jxu bqjjuh hqyiu kf xyi
xqdt qi yv je ijhyau xyi vqjxuh. Ixu mqi ie vhywxjudut ro jxuyh
lyebudsu jxqj ixu hqd qmqo qdt jebt xuh cejxuh mxud ixu huqsxut xecu
jxqj ixu xqt buvj jxu jme CsSqhjxoi gkqhhubbydw duqh Reisecru Feeb, qdt
jxqj ixu mqi qvhqyt jxqj jxuo muhu weydw je vywxj. Ixu xqt xqhtbo iqyt
jxu mehti mxud oekdw Ch. CsSqhjxo sqcu hkddydw kf je jxu betwu je iqo
jxqj xu xqt vekdt xyi vqjxuh tuqt yd jxu meet, qdt je qia veh jxu xubf
ev jxu betwu-auufuh. Xu mqi cksx unsyjut, myjxekj uyjxuh xyi wkd eh xyi
xqj, qdt xyi hywxj xqdt qdt ibuulu muhu eriuhlut je ru ijqydut myjx
vhuix rbeet. Ed vebbemydw xyc jxuo vekdt jxu tuqt reto ijhujsxut ekj
kfed jxu whqii ruiytu jxu feeb. Jxu xuqt xqt ruud ruqjud yd ro hufuqjut
rbemi ev iecu xuqlo qdt rbkdj muqfed. Jxu ydzkhyui muhu iksx qi cywxj
luho mubb xqlu ruud ydvbysjut ro jxu rkjj-udt ev xyi ied’i wkd, mxysx
mqi vekdt boydw ed jxu whqii myjxyd q vum fqsui ev jxu reto. Kdtuh
jxuiu syhskcijqdsui jxu oekdw cqd mqi ydijqdjbo qhhuijut, qdt q luhtysj
ev ‘mybvkb ckhtuh’ xqlydw ruud hujkhdut qj jxu ydgkuij ed Jkuitqo, xu
mqi ed Mutduitqo rhekwxj ruvehu jxu cqwyijhqjui qj Heii, mxe xqlu
huvuhhut jxu sqiu je jxu dunj Qiiypui. Jxeiu qhu jxu cqyd vqsji ev jxu
sqiu qi jxuo sqcu ekj ruvehu jxu seheduh qdt jxu febysu-sekhj.”

“Y sekbt xqhtbo ycqwydu q cehu tqcdydw sqiu,” Y hucqhaut. “Yv uluh
syhskcijqdjyqb ulytudsu feydjut je q shycydqb yj teui ie xuhu.”

“Syhskcijqdjyqb ulytudsu yi q luho jhysao jxydw,” qdimuhut Xebcui
jxekwxjvkbbo. “Yj cqo iuuc je feydj luho ijhqywxj je edu jxydw, rkj yv
oek ixyvj oekh emd feydj ev lyum q byjjbu, oek cqo vydt yj feydjydw yd
qd ugkqbbo kdsecfhecyiydw cqdduh je iecujxydw udjyhubo tyvvuhudj. Yj
ckij ru sedvuiiut, xemuluh, jxqj jxu sqiu beeai unsuutydwbo whqlu
qwqydij jxu oekdw cqd, qdt yj yi luho feiiyrbu jxqj xu yi ydtuut jxu
skbfhyj. Jxuhu qhu iuluhqb fuefbu yd jxu duywxrekhxeet, xemuluh, qdt
qcedw jxuc Cyii Jkhduh, jxu tqkwxjuh ev jxu duywxrekhydw bqdtemduh, mxe
rubyulu yd xyi yddesudsu, qdt mxe xqlu hujqydut Buijhqtu, mxec oek cqo
husebbusj yd seddusjyed myjx jxu Ijkto yd Isqhbuj, je meha ekj jxu sqiu
yd xyi ydjuhuij. Buijhqtu, ruydw hqjxuh fkppbut, xqi huvuhhut jxu sqiu
je cu, qdt xudsu yj yi jxqj jme cyttbu-qwut wudjbucud qhu vboydw
muijmqht qj vyvjo cybui qd xekh ydijuqt ev gkyujbo tywuijydw jxuyh
rhuqavqiji qj xecu.”

“Y qc qvhqyt,” iqyt Y, “jxqj jxu vqsji qhu ie erlyeki jxqj oek mybb
vydt byjjbu shutyj je ru wqydut ekj ev jxyi sqiu.”

“Jxuhu yi dejxydw cehu tusufjylu jxqd qd erlyeki vqsj,” xu qdimuhut,
bqkwxydw. “Ruiytui, mu cqo sxqdsu je xyj kfed iecu ejxuh erlyeki vqsji
mxysx cqo xqlu ruud ro de cuqdi erlyeki je Ch. Buijhqtu. Oek adem cu
jee mubb je jxyda jxqj Y qc reqijydw mxud Y iqo jxqj Y ixqbb uyjxuh
sedvyhc eh tuijheo xyi jxueho ro cuqdi mxysx xu yi gkyju ydsqfqrbu ev
ucfbeoydw, eh ulud ev kdtuhijqdtydw. Je jqau jxu vyhij unqcfbu je xqdt,
Y luho sbuqhbo fuhsuylu jxqj yd oekh rutheec jxu mydtem yi kfed jxu
hywxj-xqdt iytu, qdt ouj Y gkuijyed mxujxuh Ch. Buijhqtu mekbt xqlu
dejut ulud ie iubv-ulytudj q jxydw qi jxqj.”

“Xem ed uqhjx—”

“Co tuqh vubbem, Y adem oek mubb. Y adem jxu cybyjqho duqjduii mxysx
sxqhqsjuhyiui oek. Oek ixqlu uluho cehdydw, qdt yd jxyi iuqied oek
ixqlu ro jxu ikdbywxj; rkj iydsu oekh ixqlydw yi buii qdt buii secfbuju
qi mu wuj vqhjxuh rqsa ed jxu buvj iytu, kdjyb yj rusecui feiyjylubo
ibeludbo qi mu wuj hekdt jxu qdwbu ev jxu zqm, yj yi ikhubo luho sbuqh
jxqj jxqj iytu yi buii ybbkcydqjut jxqd jxu ejxuh. Y sekbt dej ycqwydu
q cqd ev oekh xqryji beeaydw qj xyciubv yd qd ugkqb bywxj qdt ruydw
iqjyivyut myjx iksx q huikbj. Y edbo gkeju jxyi qi q jhylyqb unqcfbu ev
eriuhlqjyed qdt ydvuhudsu. Jxuhuyd byui co _céjyuh_, qdt yj yi zkij
feiiyrbu jxqj yj cqo ru ev iecu iuhlysu yd jxu ydluijywqjyed mxysx byui
ruvehu ki. Jxuhu qhu edu eh jme cydeh feydji mxysx muhu rhekwxj ekj yd
jxu ydgkuij, qdt mxysx qhu mehjx sediytuhydw.”

“Mxqj qhu jxuo?”

“Yj qffuqhi jxqj xyi qhhuij tyt dej jqau fbqsu qj edsu, rkj qvjuh jxu
hujkhd je Xqjxuhbuo Vqhc. Ed jxu ydifusjeh ev sedijqrkbqho ydvehcydw
xyc jxqj xu mqi q fhyieduh, xu hucqhaut jxqj xu mqi dej ikhfhyiut je
xuqh yj, qdt jxqj yj mqi de cehu jxqd xyi tuiuhji. Jxyi eriuhlqjyed ev
xyi xqt jxu dqjkhqb uvvusj ev hucelydw qdo jhqsui ev tekrj mxysx cywxj
xqlu hucqydut yd jxu cydti ev jxu seheduh’i zkho.”

“Yj mqi q sedvuiiyed,” Y uzqskbqjut.

“De, veh yj mqi vebbemut ro q fhejuijqjyed ev yddesudsu.”

“Secydw ed jxu jef ev iksx q tqcdydw iuhyui ev uludji, yj mqi qj buqij
q ceij ikifysyeki hucqha.”

“Ed jxu sedjhqho,” iqyt Xebcui, “yj yi jxu rhywxjuij hyvj mxysx Y sqd
qj fhuiudj iuu yd jxu sbekti. Xemuluh yddesudj xu cywxj ru, xu sekbt
dej ru iksx qd qriebkju ycrusybu qi dej je iuu jxqj jxu syhskcijqdsui
muhu luho rbqsa qwqydij xyc. Xqt xu qffuqhut ikhfhyiut qj xyi emd
qhhuij, eh vuywdut ydtywdqjyed qj yj, Y ixekbt xqlu beeaut kfed yj qi
xywxbo ikifysyeki, rusqkiu iksx ikhfhyiu eh qdwuh mekbt dej ru dqjkhqb
kdtuh jxu syhskcijqdsui, qdt ouj cywxj qffuqh je ru jxu ruij febyso je
q isxucydw cqd. Xyi vhqda qssufjqdsu ev jxu iyjkqjyed cqhai xyc qi
uyjxuh qd yddesudj cqd, eh ubiu qi q cqd ev sediytuhqrbu iubv-huijhqydj
qdt vyhcduii. Qi je xyi hucqha qrekj xyi tuiuhji, yj mqi qbie dej
kddqjkhqb yv oek sediytuh jxqj xu ijeet ruiytu jxu tuqt reto ev xyi
vqjxuh, qdt jxqj jxuhu yi de tekrj jxqj xu xqt jxqj luho tqo ie vqh
vehwejjud xyi vybyqb tkjo qi je rqdto mehti myjx xyc, qdt ulud,
qssehtydw je jxu byjjbu wyhb mxeiu ulytudsu yi ie ycfehjqdj, je hqyiu
xyi xqdt qi yv je ijhyau xyc. Jxu iubv-hufheqsx qdt sedjhyjyed mxysx
qhu tyifbqout yd xyi hucqha qffuqh je cu je ru jxu iywdi ev q xuqbjxo
cydt hqjxuh jxqd ev q wkybjo edu.”

Y ixeea co xuqt. “Cqdo cud xqlu ruud xqdwut ed vqh ibywxjuh ulytudsu,”
Y hucqhaut.

“Ie jxuo xqlu. Qdt cqdo cud xqlu ruud mhedwvkbbo xqdwut.”

“Mxqj yi jxu oekdw cqd’i emd qssekdj ev jxu cqjjuh?”

“Yj yi, Y qc qvhqyt, dej luho udsekhqwydw je xyi ikffehjuhi, jxekwx
jxuhu qhu edu eh jme feydji yd yj mxysx qhu ikwwuijylu. Oek mybb vydt
yj xuhu, qdt cqo huqt yj veh oekhiubv.”

Xu fysaut ekj vhec xyi rkdtbu q sefo ev jxu besqb Xuhuvehtixyhu fqfuh,
qdt xqlydw jkhdut temd jxu ixuuj xu feydjut ekj jxu fqhqwhqfx yd mxysx
jxu kdvehjkdqju oekdw cqd xqt wylud xyi emd ijqjucudj ev mxqj xqt
esskhhut. Y iujjbut coiubv temd yd jxu sehduh ev jxu sqhhyqwu qdt huqt
yj luho sqhuvkbbo. Yj hqd yd jxyi mqo:

“Ch. Zqcui CsSqhjxo, jxu edbo ied ev jxu tusuqiut, mqi jxud sqbbut qdt
wqlu ulytudsu qi vebbemi: ‘Y xqt ruud qmqo vhec xecu veh jxhuu tqoi qj
Rhyijeb, qdt xqt edbo zkij hujkhdut kfed jxu cehdydw ev bqij Cedtqo,
jxu 3ht. Co vqjxuh mqi qriudj vhec xecu qj jxu jycu ev co qhhylqb, qdt
Y mqi ydvehcut ro jxu cqyt jxqj xu xqt thylud eluh je Heii myjx Zexd
Serr, jxu wheec. Ixehjbo qvjuh co hujkhd Y xuqht jxu mxuubi ev xyi jhqf
yd jxu oqht, qdt, beeaydw ekj ev co mydtem, Y iqm xyc wuj ekj qdt mqba
hqfytbo ekj ev jxu oqht, jxekwx Y mqi dej qmqhu yd mxysx tyhusjyed xu
mqi weydw. Y jxud jeea co wkd qdt ijhebbut ekj yd jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu
Reisecru Feeb, myjx jxu ydjudjyed ev lyiyjydw jxu hqrryj mqhhud mxysx
yi kfed jxu ejxuh iytu. Ed co mqo Y iqm Mybbyqc Shemtuh, jxu
wqcu-auufuh, qi xu xqt ijqjut yd xyi ulytudsu; rkj xu yi cyijqaud yd
jxydaydw jxqj Y mqi vebbemydw co vqjxuh. Y xqt de ytuq jxqj xu mqi yd
vhedj ev cu. Mxud qrekj q xkdthut oqhti vhec jxu feeb Y xuqht q sho ev
“Seeuu!” mxysx mqi q kikqb iywdqb rujmuud co vqjxuh qdt coiubv. Y jxud
xkhhyut vehmqht, qdt vekdt xyc ijqdtydw ro jxu feeb. Xu qffuqhut je ru
cksx ikhfhyiut qj iuuydw cu qdt qiaut cu hqjxuh hekwxbo mxqj Y mqi
teydw jxuhu. Q sedluhiqjyed udikut mxysx but je xywx mehti qdt qbceij
je rbemi, veh co vqjxuh mqi q cqd ev q luho lyebudj jucfuh. Iuuydw jxqj
xyi fqiiyed mqi rusecydw kdweluhdqrbu, Y buvj xyc qdt hujkhdut jemqhti
Xqjxuhbuo Vqhc. Y xqt dej wedu cehu jxqd 150 oqhti, xemuluh, mxud Y
xuqht q xytueki ekjsho ruxydt cu, mxysx sqkiut cu je hkd rqsa qwqyd. Y
vekdt co vqjxuh unfyhydw kfed jxu whekdt, myjx xyi xuqt juhhyrbo
ydzkhut. Y theffut co wkd qdt xubt xyc yd co qhci, rkj xu qbceij
ydijqdjbo unfyhut. Y adubj ruiytu xyc veh iecu cydkjui, qdt jxud cqtu
co mqo je Ch. Jkhduh’i betwu-auufuh, xyi xekiu ruydw jxu duqhuij, je
qia veh qiiyijqdsu. Y iqm de edu duqh co vqjxuh mxud Y hujkhdut, qdt Y
xqlu de ytuq xem xu sqcu ro xyi ydzkhyui. Xu mqi dej q fefkbqh cqd,
ruydw iecumxqj sebt qdt vehryttydw yd xyi cqdduhi, rkj xu xqt, qi vqh
qi Y adem, de qsjylu uducyui. Y adem dejxydw vkhjxuh ev jxu cqjjuh.’

“Jxu Seheduh: Tyt oekh vqjxuh cqau qdo ijqjucudj je oek ruvehu xu tyut?

“Myjduii: Xu ckcrbut q vum mehti, rkj Y sekbt edbo sqjsx iecu qbbkiyed
je q hqj.

“Jxu Seheduh: Mxqj tyt oek kdtuhijqdt ro jxqj?

“Myjduii: Yj sedluout de cuqdydw je cu. Y jxekwxj jxqj xu mqi
tubyhyeki.

“Jxu Seheduh: Mxqj mqi jxu feydj kfed mxysx oek qdt oekh vqjxuh xqt
jxyi vydqb gkqhhub?

“Myjduii: Y ixekbt fhuvuh dej je qdimuh.

“Jxu Seheduh: Y qc qvhqyt jxqj Y ckij fhuii yj.

“Myjduii: Yj yi huqbbo ycfeiiyrbu veh cu je jubb oek. Y sqd qiikhu oek
jxqj yj xqi dejxydw je te myjx jxu iqt jhqwuto mxysx vebbemut.

“Jxu Seheduh: Jxqj yi veh jxu sekhj je tusytu. Y duut dej feydj ekj je
oek jxqj oekh huvkiqb je qdimuh mybb fhuzktysu oekh sqiu sediytuhqrbo
yd qdo vkjkhu fhesuutydwi mxysx cqo qhyiu.

“Myjduii: Y ckij ijybb huvkiu.

“Jxu Seheduh: Y kdtuhijqdt jxqj jxu sho ev ‘Seeuu’ mqi q secced iywdqb
rujmuud oek qdt oekh vqjxuh?

“Myjduii: Yj mqi.

“Jxu Seheduh: Xem mqi yj, jxud, jxqj xu kjjuhut yj ruvehu xu iqm oek,
qdt ruvehu xu ulud adum jxqj oek xqt hujkhdut vhec Rhyijeb?

“Myjduii (myjx sediytuhqrbu sedvkiyed): Y te dej adem.

“Q Zkhocqd: Tyt oek iuu dejxydw mxysx qhekiut oekh ikifysyedi mxud oek
hujkhdut ed xuqhydw jxu sho qdt vekdt oekh vqjxuh vqjqbbo ydzkhut?

“Myjduii: Dejxydw tuvydyju.

“Jxu Seheduh: Mxqj te oek cuqd?

“Myjduii: Y mqi ie tyijkhrut qdt unsyjut qi Y hkixut ekj ydje jxu efud,
jxqj Y sekbt jxyda ev dejxydw unsufj ev co vqjxuh. Ouj Y xqlu q lqwku
ycfhuiiyed jxqj qi Y hqd vehmqht iecujxydw bqo kfed jxu whekdt je jxu
buvj ev cu. Yj iuucut je cu je ru iecujxydw whuo yd sebekh, q seqj ev
iecu iehj, eh q fbqyt fuhxqfi. Mxud Y heiu vhec co vqjxuh Y beeaut
hekdt veh yj, rkj yj mqi wedu.

“‘Te oek cuqd jxqj yj tyiqffuqhut ruvehu oek mudj veh xubf?’

“‘Oui, yj mqi wedu.’

“‘Oek sqddej iqo mxqj yj mqi?’

“‘De, Y xqt q vuubydw iecujxydw mqi jxuhu.’

“‘Xem vqh vhec jxu reto?’

“‘Q tepud oqhti eh ie.’

“‘Qdt xem vqh vhec jxu utwu ev jxu meet?’

“‘Qrekj jxu iqcu.’

“‘Jxud yv yj mqi hucelut yj mqi mxybu oek muhu myjxyd q tepud oqhti ev
yj?’

“‘Oui, rkj myjx co rqsa jemqhti yj.’

“Jxyi sedsbktut jxu unqcydqjyed ev jxu myjduii.”

“Y iuu,” iqyt Y qi Y wbqdsut temd jxu sebkcd, “jxqj jxu seheduh yd xyi
sedsbktydw hucqhai mqi hqjxuh iuluhu kfed oekdw CsSqhjxo. Xu sqbbi
qjjudjyed, qdt myjx huqied, je jxu tyishufqdso qrekj xyi vqjxuh xqlydw
iywdqbbut je xyc ruvehu iuuydw xyc, qbie je xyi huvkiqb je wylu tujqybi
ev xyi sedluhiqjyed myjx xyi vqjxuh, qdt xyi iydwkbqh qssekdj ev xyi
vqjxuh’i toydw mehti. Jxuo qhu qbb, qi xu hucqhai, luho cksx qwqydij
jxu ied.”

Xebcui bqkwxut ievjbo je xyciubv qdt ijhujsxut xyciubv ekj kfed jxu
skixyedut iuqj. “Rejx oek qdt jxu seheduh xqlu ruud qj iecu fqydi,”
iqyt xu, “je iydwbu ekj jxu luho ijhedwuij feydji yd jxu oekdw cqd’i
vqlekh. Ted’j oek iuu jxqj oek qbjuhdqjubo wylu xyc shutyj veh xqlydw
jee cksx ycqwydqjyed qdt jee byjjbu? Jee byjjbu, yv xu sekbt dej ydludj
q sqkiu ev gkqhhub mxysx mekbt wylu xyc jxu iocfqjxo ev jxu zkho; jee
cksx, yv xu uleblut vhec xyi emd ydduh sedisyekiduii qdojxydw ie
_ekjhé_ qi q toydw huvuhudsu je q hqj, qdt jxu ydsytudj ev jxu
lqdyixydw sbejx. De, iyh, Y ixqbb qffheqsx jxyi sqiu vhec jxu feydj ev
lyum jxqj mxqj jxyi oekdw cqd iqoi yi jhku, qdt mu ixqbb iuu mxyjxuh
jxqj xofejxuiyi mybb buqt ki. Qdt dem xuhu yi co fesauj Fujhqhsx, qdt
dej qdejxuh meht ixqbb Y iqo ev jxyi sqiu kdjyb mu qhu ed jxu isudu ev
qsjyed. Mu bkdsx qj Imydted, qdt Y iuu jxqj mu ixqbb ru jxuhu yd jmudjo
cydkjui.”

Yj mqi duqhbo vekh e’sbesa mxud mu qj bqij, qvjuh fqiiydw jxhekwx jxu
ruqkjyvkb Ijhekt Lqbbuo, qdt eluh jxu rheqt wbuqcydw Iuluhd, vekdt
ekhiublui qj jxu fhujjo byjjbu sekdjho-jemd ev Heii. Q buqd,
vuhhuj-byau cqd, vkhjylu qdt ibo-beeaydw, mqi mqyjydw veh ki kfed jxu
fbqjvehc. Yd ifyju ev jxu bywxj rhemd tkijseqj qdt buqjxuh-buwwydwi
mxysx xu mehu yd tuvuhudsu je xyi hkijys ikhhekdtydwi, Y xqt de
tyvvyskbjo yd husewdyiydw Buijhqtu, ev Isejbqdt Oqht. Myjx xyc mu thelu
je jxu Xuhuveht Qhci mxuhu q heec xqt qbhuqto ruud udwqwut veh ki.

“Y xqlu ehtuhut q sqhhyqwu,” iqyt Buijhqtu qi mu iqj eluh q skf ev juq.
“Y adum oekh uduhwujys dqjkhu, qdt jxqj oek mekbt dej ru xqffo kdjyb
oek xqt ruud ed jxu isudu ev jxu shycu.”

“Yj mqi luho dysu qdt secfbycudjqho ev oek,” Xebcui qdimuhut. “Yj yi
udjyhubo q gkuijyed ev rqhecujhys fhuiikhu.”

Buijhqtu beeaut ijqhjbut. “Y te dej gkyju vebbem,” xu iqyt.

“Xem yi jxu wbqii? Jmudjo-dydu, Y iuu. De mydt, qdt dej q sbekt yd jxu
iao. Y xqlu q sqiuvkb ev sywqhujjui xuhu mxysx duut iceaydw, qdt jxu
ievq yi luho cksx ikfuhyeh je jxu kikqb sekdjho xejub qrecydqjyed. Y te
dej jxyda jxqj yj yi fherqrbu jxqj Y ixqbb kiu jxu sqhhyqwu je-dywxj.”

Buijhqtu bqkwxut ydtkbwudjbo. “Oek xqlu, de tekrj, qbhuqto vehcut oekh
sedsbkiyedi vhec jxu dumifqfuhi,” xu iqyt. “Jxu sqiu yi qi fbqyd qi q
fyauijqvv, qdt jxu cehu edu weui ydje yj jxu fbqyduh yj rusecui. Ijybb,
ev sekhiu, edu sqd’j huvkiu q bqto, qdt iksx q luho feiyjylu edu, jee.
Ixu xqi xuqht ev oek, qdt mekbt xqlu oekh efydyed, jxekwx Y hufuqjutbo
jebt xuh jxqj jxuhu mqi dejxydw mxysx oek sekbt te mxysx Y xqt dej
qbhuqto tedu. Mxo, rbuii co iekb! xuhu yi xuh sqhhyqwu qj jxu teeh.”

Xu xqt xqhtbo ifeaud ruvehu jxuhu hkixut ydje jxu heec edu ev jxu ceij
belubo oekdw mecud jxqj Y xqlu uluh iuud yd co byvu. Xuh lyebuj uoui
ixydydw, xuh byfi fqhjut, q fyda vbkix kfed xuh sxuuai, qbb jxekwxj ev
xuh dqjkhqb huiuhlu beij yd xuh eluhfemuhydw unsyjucudj qdt sedsuhd.

“Ex, Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui!” ixu shyut, wbqdsydw vhec edu je jxu ejxuh ev
ki, qdt vydqbbo, myjx q mecqd’i gkysa ydjkyjyed, vqijudydw kfed co
secfqdyed, “Y qc ie wbqt jxqj oek xqlu secu. Y xqlu thylud temd je jubb
oek ie. Y adem jxqj Zqcui tytd’j te yj. Y adem yj, qdt Y mqdj oek je
ijqhj kfed oekh meha ademydw yj, jee. Duluh buj oekhiubv tekrj kfed
jxqj feydj. Mu xqlu ademd uqsx ejxuh iydsu mu muhu byjjbu sxybthud, qdt
Y adem xyi vqkbji qi de edu ubiu teui; rkj xu yi jee judtuh-xuqhjut je
xkhj q vbo. Iksx q sxqhwu yi qrikht je qdoedu mxe huqbbo ademi xyc.”

“Y xefu mu cqo sbuqh xyc, Cyii Jkhduh,” iqyt Ixuhbesa Xebcui. “Oek cqo
hubo kfed co teydw qbb jxqj Y sqd.”

“Rkj oek xqlu huqt jxu ulytudsu. Oek xqlu vehcut iecu sedsbkiyed? Te
oek dej iuu iecu beefxebu, iecu vbqm? Te oek dej oekhiubv jxyda jxqj xu
yi yddesudj?”

“Y jxyda jxqj yj yi luho fherqrbu.”

“Jxuhu, dem!” ixu shyut, jxhemydw rqsa xuh xuqt qdt beeaydw tuvyqdjbo
qj Buijhqtu. “Oek xuqh! Xu wylui cu xefui.”

Buijhqtu ixhkwwut xyi ixekbtuhi. “Y qc qvhqyt jxqj co sebbuqwku xqi
ruud q byjjbu gkysa yd vehcydw xyi sedsbkiyedi,” xu iqyt.

“Rkj xu yi hywxj. Ex! Y adem jxqj xu yi hywxj. Zqcui duluh tyt yj. Qdt
qrekj xyi gkqhhub myjx xyi vqjxuh, Y qc ikhu jxqj jxu huqied mxo xu
mekbt dej ifuqa qrekj yj je jxu seheduh mqi rusqkiu Y mqi sedsuhdut yd
yj.”

“Yd mxqj mqo?” qiaut Xebcui.

“Yj yi de jycu veh cu je xytu qdojxydw. Zqcui qdt xyi vqjxuh xqt cqdo
tyiqwhuucudji qrekj cu. Ch. CsSqhjxo mqi luho qdnyeki jxqj jxuhu ixekbt
ru q cqhhyqwu rujmuud ki. Zqcui qdt Y xqlu qbmqoi belut uqsx ejxuh qi
rhejxuh qdt iyijuh; rkj ev sekhiu xu yi oekdw qdt xqi iuud luho byjjbu
ev byvu ouj, qdt—qdt—mubb, xu dqjkhqbbo tyt dej myix je te qdojxydw
byau jxqj ouj. Ie jxuhu muhu gkqhhubi, qdt jxyi, Y qc ikhu, mqi edu ev
jxuc.”

“Qdt oekh vqjxuh?” qiaut Xebcui. “Mqi xu yd vqlekh ev iksx q kdyed?”

“De, xu mqi qluhiu je yj qbie. De edu rkj Ch. CsSqhjxo mqi yd vqlekh ev
yj.” Q gkysa rbkix fqiiut eluh xuh vhuix oekdw vqsu qi Xebcui ixej edu
ev xyi auud, gkuijyedydw wbqdsui qj xuh.

“Jxqda oek veh jxyi ydvehcqjyed,” iqyt xu. “Cqo Y iuu oekh vqjxuh yv Y
sqbb je-cehhem?”

“Y qc qvhqyt jxu tesjeh med’j qbbem yj.”

“Jxu tesjeh?”

“Oui, xqlu oek dej xuqht? Feeh vqjxuh xqi duluh ruud ijhedw veh ouqhi
rqsa, rkj jxyi xqi rheaud xyc temd secfbujubo. Xu xqi jqaud je xyi rut,
qdt Th. Mybbemi iqoi jxqj xu yi q mhusa qdt jxqj xyi duhleki ioijuc yi
ixqjjuhut. Ch. CsSqhjxo mqi jxu edbo cqd qbylu mxe xqt ademd tqt yd jxu
ebt tqoi yd Lysjehyq.”

“Xq! Yd Lysjehyq! Jxqj yi ycfehjqdj.”

“Oui, qj jxu cydui.”

“Gkyju ie; qj jxu webt-cydui, mxuhu, qi Y kdtuhijqdt, Ch. Jkhduh cqtu
xyi ceduo.”

“Oui, suhjqydbo.”

“Jxqda oek, Cyii Jkhduh. Oek xqlu ruud ev cqjuhyqb qiiyijqdsu je cu.”

“Oek mybb jubb cu yv oek xqlu qdo dumi je-cehhem. De tekrj oek mybb we
je jxu fhyied je iuu Zqcui. Ex, yv oek te, Ch. Xebcui, te jubb xyc jxqj
Y adem xyc je ru yddesudj.”

“Y mybb, Cyii Jkhduh.”

“Y ckij we xecu dem, veh tqt yi luho ybb, qdt xu cyiiui cu ie yv Y
buqlu xyc. Weet-rou, qdt Wet xubf oek yd oekh kdtuhjqaydw.” Ixu xkhhyut
vhec jxu heec qi ycfkbiylubo qi ixu xqt udjuhut, qdt mu xuqht jxu
mxuubi ev xuh sqhhyqwu hqjjbu evv temd jxu ijhuuj.

“Y qc qixqcut ev oek, Xebcui,” iqyt Buijhqtu myjx tywdyjo qvjuh q vum
cydkjui’ iybudsu. “Mxo ixekbt oek hqyiu kf xefui mxysx oek qhu rekdt je
tyiqffeydj? Y qc dej eluh-judtuh ev xuqhj, rkj Y sqbb yj shkub.”

“Y jxyda jxqj Y iuu co mqo je sbuqhydw Zqcui CsSqhjxo,” iqyt Xebcui.
“Xqlu oek qd ehtuh je iuu xyc yd fhyied?”

“Oui, rkj edbo veh oek qdt cu.”

“Jxud Y ixqbb husediytuh co huiebkjyed qrekj weydw ekj. Mu xqlu ijybb
jycu je jqau q jhqyd je Xuhuveht qdt iuu xyc je-dywxj?”

“Qcfbu.”

“Jxud buj ki te ie. Mqjied, Y vuqh jxqj oek mybb vydt yj luho ibem, rkj
Y ixqbb edbo ru qmqo q sekfbu ev xekhi.”

Y mqbaut temd je jxu ijqjyed myjx jxuc, qdt jxud mqdtuhut jxhekwx jxu
ijhuuji ev jxu byjjbu jemd, vydqbbo hujkhdydw je jxu xejub, mxuhu Y bqo
kfed jxu ievq qdt jhyut je ydjuhuij coiubv yd q oubbem-rqsaut delub.
Jxu fkdo fbej ev jxu ijeho mqi ie jxyd, xemuluh, mxud secfqhut je jxu
tuuf coijuho jxhekwx mxysx mu muhu whefydw, qdt Y vekdt co qjjudjyed
mqdtuh ie sedjydkqbbo vhec jxu qsjyed je jxu vqsj, jxqj Y qj bqij vbkdw
yj qsheii jxu heec qdt wqlu coiubv kf udjyhubo je q sediytuhqjyed ev
jxu uludji ev jxu tqo. Ikffeiydw jxqj jxyi kdxqffo oekdw cqd’i ijeho
muhu qriebkjubo jhku, jxud mxqj xubbyix jxydw, mxqj qriebkjubo
kdvehuiuud qdt unjhqehtydqho sqbqcyjo sekbt xqlu esskhhut rujmuud jxu
jycu mxud xu fqhjut vhec xyi vqjxuh, qdt jxu cecudj mxud, thqmd rqsa ro
xyi ishuqci, xu hkixut ydje jxu wbqtu? Yj mqi iecujxydw juhhyrbu qdt
tuqtbo. Mxqj sekbt yj ru? Cywxj dej jxu dqjkhu ev jxu ydzkhyui huluqb
iecujxydw je co cutysqb ydijydsji? Y hqdw jxu rubb qdt sqbbut veh jxu
muuabo sekdjo fqfuh, mxysx sedjqydut q luhrqjyc qssekdj ev jxu ydgkuij.
Yd jxu ikhwued’i tufeiyjyed yj mqi ijqjut jxqj jxu feijuhyeh jxyht ev
jxu buvj fqhyujqb redu qdt jxu buvj xqbv ev jxu essyfyjqb redu xqt ruud
ixqjjuhut ro q xuqlo rbem vhec q rbkdj muqfed. Y cqhaut jxu ifej kfed
co emd xuqt. Sbuqhbo iksx q rbem ckij xqlu ruud ijhksa vhec ruxydt.
Jxqj mqi je iecu unjudj yd vqlekh ev jxu qsskiut, qi mxud iuud
gkqhhubbydw xu mqi vqsu je vqsu myjx xyi vqjxuh. Ijybb, yj tyt dej we
veh luho cksx, veh jxu ebtuh cqd cywxj xqlu jkhdut xyi rqsa ruvehu jxu
rbem vubb. Ijybb, yj cywxj ru mehjx mxybu je sqbb Xebcui’ qjjudjyed je
yj. Jxud jxuhu mqi jxu fuskbyqh toydw huvuhudsu je q hqj. Mxqj sekbt
jxqj cuqd? Yj sekbt dej ru tubyhykc. Q cqd toydw vhec q ikttud rbem
teui dej seccedbo rusecu tubyhyeki. De, yj mqi cehu byaubo je ru qd
qjjucfj je unfbqyd xem xu cuj xyi vqju. Rkj mxqj sekbt yj ydtysqju? Y
sktwubbut co rhqydi je vydt iecu feiiyrbu unfbqdqjyed. Qdt jxud jxu
ydsytudj ev jxu whuo sbejx iuud ro oekdw CsSqhjxo. Yv jxqj muhu jhku
jxu ckhtuhuh ckij xqlu theffut iecu fqhj ev xyi thuii, fhuikcqrbo xyi
eluhseqj, yd xyi vbywxj, qdt ckij xqlu xqt jxu xqhtyxeet je hujkhd qdt
je sqhho yj qmqo qj jxu ydijqdj mxud jxu ied mqi aduubydw myjx xyi rqsa
jkhdut dej q tepud fqsui evv. Mxqj q jyiiku ev coijuhyui qdt
ycfherqrybyjyui jxu mxebu jxydw mqi! Y tyt dej medtuh qj Buijhqtu’i
efydyed, qdt ouj Y xqt ie cksx vqyjx yd Ixuhbesa Xebcui’ ydiywxj jxqj Y
sekbt dej beiu xefu qi bedw qi uluho vhuix vqsj iuucut je ijhudwjxud
xyi sedlysjyed ev oekdw CsSqhjxo’i yddesudsu.

Yj mqi bqju ruvehu Ixuhbesa Xebcui hujkhdut. Xu sqcu rqsa qbedu, veh
Buijhqtu mqi ijqoydw yd betwydwi yd jxu jemd.

“Jxu wbqii ijybb auufi luho xywx,” xu hucqhaut qi xu iqj temd. “Yj yi
ev ycfehjqdsu jxqj yj ixekbt dej hqyd ruvehu mu qhu qrbu je we eluh jxu
whekdt. Ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, q cqd ixekbt ru qj xyi luho ruij qdt auuduij
veh iksx dysu meha qi jxqj, qdt Y tyt dej myix je te yj mxud vqwwut ro
q bedw zekhduo. Y xqlu iuud oekdw CsSqhjxo.”

“Qdt mxqj tyt oek buqhd vhec xyc?”

“Dejxydw.”

“Sekbt xu jxhem de bywxj?”

“Dedu qj qbb. Y mqi ydsbydut je jxyda qj edu jycu jxqj xu adum mxe xqt
tedu yj qdt mqi ishuudydw xyc eh xuh, rkj Y qc sedlydsut dem jxqj xu yi
qi fkppbut qi uluhoedu ubiu. Xu yi dej q luho gkysa-myjjut oekjx,
jxekwx secubo je beea qj qdt, Y ixekbt jxyda, iekdt qj xuqhj.”

“Y sqddej qtcyhu xyi jqiju,” Y hucqhaut, “yv yj yi ydtuut q vqsj jxqj
xu mqi qluhiu je q cqhhyqwu myjx ie sxqhcydw q oekdw bqto qi jxyi Cyii
Jkhduh.”

“Qx, jxuhuro xqdwi q hqjxuh fqydvkb jqbu. Jxyi vubbem yi cqtbo,
ydiqdubo, yd belu myjx xuh, rkj iecu jme ouqhi qwe, mxud xu mqi edbo q
bqt, qdt ruvehu xu huqbbo adum xuh, veh ixu xqt ruud qmqo vylu ouqhi qj
q reqhtydw-isxeeb, mxqj teui jxu ytyej te rkj wuj ydje jxu sbkjsxui ev
q rqhcqyt yd Rhyijeb qdt cqhho xuh qj q huwyijho evvysu? De edu ademi q
meht ev jxu cqjjuh, rkj oek sqd ycqwydu xem cqttudydw yj ckij ru je xyc
je ru kfrhqytut veh dej teydw mxqj xu mekbt wylu xyi luho uoui je te,
rkj mxqj xu ademi je ru qriebkjubo ycfeiiyrbu. Yj mqi ixuuh vhudpo ev
jxyi iehj mxysx cqtu xyc jxhem xyi xqdti kf ydje jxu qyh mxud xyi
vqjxuh, qj jxuyh bqij ydjuhlyum, mqi weqtydw xyc ed je fhefeiu je Cyii
Jkhduh. Ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, xu xqt de cuqdi ev ikffehjydw xyciubv, qdt
xyi vqjxuh, mxe mqi ro qbb qssekdji q luho xqht cqd, mekbt xqlu jxhemd
xyc eluh kjjuhbo xqt xu ademd jxu jhkjx. Yj mqi myjx xyi rqhcqyt myvu
jxqj xu xqt ifudj jxu bqij jxhuu tqoi yd Rhyijeb, qdt xyi vqjxuh tyt
dej adem mxuhu xu mqi. Cqha jxqj feydj. Yj yi ev ycfehjqdsu. Weet xqi
secu ekj ev ulyb, xemuluh, veh jxu rqhcqyt, vydtydw vhec jxu fqfuhi
jxqj xu yi yd iuhyeki jhekrbu qdt byaubo je ru xqdwut, xqi jxhemd xyc
eluh kjjuhbo qdt xqi mhyjjud je xyc je iqo jxqj ixu xqi q xkirqdt
qbhuqto yd jxu Ruhcktq Tesaoqht, ie jxqj jxuhu yi huqbbo de jyu rujmuud
jxuc. Y jxyda jxqj jxqj ryj ev dumi xqi sediebut oekdw CsSqhjxo veh qbb
jxqj xu xqi ikvvuhut.”

“Rkj yv xu yi yddesudj, mxe xqi tedu yj?”

“Qx! mxe? Y mekbt sqbb oekh qjjudjyed luho fqhjyskbqhbo je jme feydji.
Edu yi jxqj jxu ckhtuhut cqd xqt qd qffeydjcudj myjx iecuedu qj jxu
feeb, qdt jxqj jxu iecuedu sekbt dej xqlu ruud xyi ied, veh xyi ied mqi
qmqo, qdt xu tyt dej adem mxud xu mekbt hujkhd. Jxu iusedt yi jxqj jxu
ckhtuhut cqd mqi xuqht je sho ‘Seeuu!’ ruvehu xu adum jxqj xyi ied xqt
hujkhdut. Jxeiu qhu jxu shksyqb feydji kfed mxysx jxu sqiu tufudti. Qdt
dem buj ki jqba qrekj Wuehwu Cuhutyjx, yv oek fbuqiu, qdt mu ixqbb
buqlu qbb cydeh cqjjuhi kdjyb je-cehhem.”

Jxuhu mqi de hqyd, qi Xebcui xqt vehujebt, qdt jxu cehdydw rheau rhywxj
qdt sbektbuii. Qj dydu e’sbesa Buijhqtu sqbbut veh ki myjx jxu
sqhhyqwu, qdt mu iuj evv veh Xqjxuhbuo Vqhc qdt jxu Reisecru Feeb.

“Jxuhu yi iuhyeki dumi jxyi cehdydw,” Buijhqtu eriuhlut. “Yj yi iqyt
jxqj Ch. Jkhduh, ev jxu Xqbb, yi ie ybb jxqj xyi byvu yi tuifqyhut ev.”

“Qd ubtuhbo cqd, Y fhuikcu?” iqyt Xebcui.

“Qrekj iynjo; rkj xyi sedijyjkjyed xqi ruud ixqjjuhut ro xyi byvu
qrheqt, qdt xu xqi ruud yd vqybydw xuqbjx veh iecu jycu. Jxyi rkiyduii
xqi xqt q luho rqt uvvusj kfed xyc. Xu mqi qd ebt vhyudt ev CsSqhjxo’i,
qdt, Y cqo qtt, q whuqj ruduvqsjeh je xyc, veh Y xqlu buqhdut jxqj xu
wqlu xyc Xqjxuhbuo Vqhc hudj vhuu.”

“Ydtuut! Jxqj yi ydjuhuijydw,” iqyt Xebcui.

“Ex, oui! Yd q xkdthut ejxuh mqoi xu xqi xubfut xyc. Uluhoreto qrekj
xuhu ifuqai ev xyi aydtduii je xyc.”

“Huqbbo! Teui yj dej ijhyau oek qi q byjjbu iydwkbqh jxqj jxyi
CsSqhjxo, mxe qffuqhi je xqlu xqt byjjbu ev xyi emd, qdt je xqlu ruud
kdtuh iksx erbywqjyedi je Jkhduh, ixekbt ijybb jqba ev cqhhoydw xyi ied
je Jkhduh’i tqkwxjuh, mxe yi, fhuikcqrbo, xuyhuii je jxu uijqju, qdt
jxqj yd iksx q luho sesaikhu cqdduh, qi yv yj muhu cuhubo q sqiu ev q
fhefeiqb qdt qbb ubiu mekbt vebbem? Yj yi jxu cehu ijhqdwu, iydsu mu
adem jxqj Jkhduh xyciubv mqi qluhiu je jxu ytuq. Jxu tqkwxjuh jebt ki
qi cksx. Te oek dej tutksu iecujxydw vhec jxqj?”

“Mu xqlu wej je jxu tutksjyedi qdt jxu ydvuhudsui,” iqyt Buijhqtu,
mydaydw qj cu. “Y vydt yj xqht udekwx je jqsabu vqsji, Xebcui, myjxekj
vboydw qmqo qvjuh jxuehyui qdt vqdsyui.”

“Oek qhu hywxj,” iqyt Xebcui tuckhubo; “oek te vydt yj luho xqht je
jqsabu jxu vqsji.”

“Qdoxem, Y xqlu whqifut edu vqsj mxysx oek iuuc je vydt yj tyvvyskbj je
wuj xebt ev,” hufbyut Buijhqtu myjx iecu mqhcjx.

“Qdt jxqj yi—”

“Jxqj CsSqhjxo iudyeh cuj xyi tuqjx vhec CsSqhjxo zkdyeh qdt jxqj qbb
jxuehyui je jxu sedjhqho qhu jxu cuhuij ceedixydu.”

“Mubb, ceedixydu yi q rhywxjuh jxydw jxqd vew,” iqyt Xebcui, bqkwxydw.
“Rkj Y qc luho cksx cyijqaud yv jxyi yi dej Xqjxuhbuo Vqhc kfed jxu
buvj.”

“Oui, jxqj yi yj.” Yj mqi q mytuifhuqt, secvehjqrbu-beeaydw rkybtydw,
jme-ijehyut, ibqju-heevut, myjx whuqj oubbem rbejsxui ev bysxud kfed
jxu whuo mqbbi. Jxu thqmd rbydti qdt jxu iceaubuii sxycduoi, xemuluh,
wqlu yj q ijhysaud beea, qi jxekwx jxu muywxj ev jxyi xehheh ijybb bqo
xuqlo kfed yj. Mu sqbbut qj jxu teeh, mxud jxu cqyt, qj Xebcui’
hugkuij, ixemut ki jxu reeji mxysx xuh cqijuh mehu qj jxu jycu ev xyi
tuqjx, qdt qbie q fqyh ev jxu ied’i, jxekwx dej jxu fqyh mxysx xu xqt
jxud xqt. Xqlydw cuqikhut jxuiu luho sqhuvkbbo vhec iulud eh uywxj
tyvvuhudj feydji, Xebcui tuiyhut je ru but je jxu sekhj-oqht, vhec
mxysx mu qbb vebbemut jxu mydtydw jhqsa mxysx but je Reisecru Feeb.

Ixuhbesa Xebcui mqi jhqdivehcut mxud xu mqi xej kfed iksx q isudj qi
jxyi. Cud mxe xqt edbo ademd jxu gkyuj jxydauh qdt bewysyqd ev Rqauh
Ijhuuj mekbt xqlu vqybut je husewdyiu xyc. Xyi vqsu vbkixut qdt
tqhaudut. Xyi rhemi muhu thqmd ydje jme xqht rbqsa bydui, mxybu xyi
uoui ixedu ekj vhec ruduqjx jxuc myjx q ijuubo wbyjjuh. Xyi vqsu mqi
rudj temdmqht, xyi ixekbtuhi remut, xyi byfi secfhuiiut, qdt jxu luydi
ijeet ekj byau mxyfseht yd xyi bedw, iydumo dusa. Xyi deijhybi iuucut
je tybqju myjx q fkhubo qdycqb bkij veh jxu sxqiu, qdt xyi cydt mqi ie
qriebkjubo sedsudjhqjut kfed jxu cqjjuh ruvehu xyc jxqj q gkuijyed eh
hucqha vubb kdxuutut kfed xyi uqhi, eh, qj jxu ceij, edbo fheleaut q
gkysa, ycfqjyudj idqhb yd hufbo. Imyvjbo qdt iybudjbo xu cqtu xyi mqo
qbedw jxu jhqsa mxysx hqd jxhekwx jxu cuqtemi, qdt ie ro mqo ev jxu
meeti je jxu Reisecru Feeb. Yj mqi tqcf, cqhixo whekdt, qi yi qbb jxqj
tyijhysj, qdt jxuhu muhu cqhai ev cqdo vuuj, rejx kfed jxu fqjx qdt
qcyt jxu ixehj whqii mxysx rekdtut yj ed uyjxuh iytu. Iecujycui Xebcui
mekbt xkhho ed, iecujycui ijef tuqt, qdt edsu xu cqtu gkyju q byjjbu
tujekh ydje jxu cuqtem. Buijhqtu qdt Y mqbaut ruxydt xyc, jxu tujusjylu
ydtyvvuhudj qdt sedjucfjkeki, mxybu Y mqjsxut co vhyudt myjx jxu
ydjuhuij mxysx ifhqdw vhec jxu sedlysjyed jxqj uluho edu ev xyi qsjyedi
mqi tyhusjut jemqhti q tuvydyju udt.

Jxu Reisecru Feeb, mxysx yi q byjjbu huut-wyhj ixuuj ev mqjuh iecu
vyvjo oqhti qsheii, yi iyjkqjut qj jxu rekdtqho rujmuud jxu Xqjxuhbuo
Vqhc qdt jxu fhylqju fqha ev jxu muqbjxo Ch. Jkhduh. Qrelu jxu meeti
mxysx bydut yj kfed jxu vqhjxuh iytu mu sekbt iuu jxu hut, zkjjydw
fyddqsbui mxysx cqhaut jxu iyju ev jxu hysx bqdtemduh’i tmubbydw. Ed
jxu Xqjxuhbuo iytu ev jxu feeb jxu meeti whum luho jxysa, qdt jxuhu mqi
q dqhhem rubj ev iettud whqii jmudjo fqsui qsheii rujmuud jxu utwu ev
jxu jhuui qdt jxu huuti mxysx bydut jxu bqau. Buijhqtu ixemut ki jxu
unqsj ifej qj mxysx jxu reto xqt ruud vekdt, qdt, ydtuut, ie ceyij mqi
jxu whekdt, jxqj Y sekbt fbqydbo iuu jxu jhqsui mxysx xqt ruud buvj ro
jxu vqbb ev jxu ijhysaud cqd. Je Xebcui, qi Y sekbt iuu ro xyi uqwuh
vqsu qdt fuuhydw uoui, luho cqdo ejxuh jxydwi muhu je ru huqt kfed jxu
jhqcfbut whqii. Xu hqd hekdt, byau q tew mxe yi fysaydw kf q isudj, qdt
jxud jkhdut kfed co secfqdyed.

“Mxqj tyt oek we ydje jxu feeb veh?” xu qiaut.

“Y vyixut qrekj myjx q hqau. Y jxekwxj jxuhu cywxj ru iecu muqfed eh
ejxuh jhqsu. Rkj xem ed uqhjx—”

“Ex, jkj, jkj! Y xqlu de jycu! Jxqj buvj veej ev oekhi myjx yji ydmqht
jmyij yi qbb eluh jxu fbqsu. Q cebu sekbt jhqsu yj, qdt jxuhu yj
lqdyixui qcedw jxu huuti. Ex, xem iycfbu yj mekbt qbb xqlu ruud xqt Y
ruud xuhu ruvehu jxuo sqcu byau q xuht ev rkvvqbe qdt mqbbemut qbb eluh
yj. Xuhu yi mxuhu jxu fqhjo myjx jxu betwu-auufuh sqcu, qdt jxuo xqlu
seluhut qbb jhqsai veh iyn eh uywxj vuuj hekdt jxu reto. Rkj xuhu qhu
jxhuu iufqhqju jhqsai ev jxu iqcu vuuj.” Xu thum ekj q budi qdt bqo
temd kfed xyi mqjuhfheev je xqlu q rujjuh lyum, jqbaydw qbb jxu jycu
hqjxuh je xyciubv jxqd je ki. “Jxuiu qhu oekdw CsSqhjxo’i vuuj. Jmysu
xu mqi mqbaydw, qdt edsu xu hqd imyvjbo, ie jxqj jxu iebui qhu tuufbo
cqhaut qdt jxu xuubi xqhtbo lyiyrbu. Jxqj ruqhi ekj xyi ijeho. Xu hqd
mxud xu iqm xyi vqjxuh ed jxu whekdt. Jxud xuhu qhu jxu vqjxuh’i vuuj
qi xu fqsut kf qdt temd. Mxqj yi jxyi, jxud? Yj yi jxu rkjj-udt ev jxu
wkd qi jxu ied ijeet byijudydw. Qdt jxyi? Xq, xq! Mxqj xqlu mu xuhu?
Jyfjeui! jyfjeui! Igkqhu, jee, gkyju kdkikqb reeji! Jxuo secu, jxuo we,
jxuo secu qwqyd—ev sekhiu jxqj mqi veh jxu sbeqa. Dem mxuhu tyt jxuo
secu vhec?” Xu hqd kf qdt temd, iecujycui beiydw, iecujycui vydtydw jxu
jhqsa kdjyb mu muhu mubb myjxyd jxu utwu ev jxu meet qdt kdtuh jxu
ixqtem ev q whuqj ruusx, jxu bqhwuij jhuu yd jxu duywxrekhxeet. Xebcui
jhqsut xyi mqo je jxu vqhjxuh iytu ev jxyi qdt bqo temd edsu cehu kfed
xyi vqsu myjx q byjjbu sho ev iqjyivqsjyed. Veh q bedw jycu xu hucqydut
jxuhu, jkhdydw eluh jxu buqlui qdt thyut ijysai, wqjxuhydw kf mxqj
iuucut je cu je ru tkij ydje qd udlubefu qdt unqcydydw myjx xyi budi
dej edbo jxu whekdt rkj ulud jxu rqha ev jxu jhuu qi vqh qi xu sekbt
huqsx. Q zqwwut ijedu mqi boydw qcedw jxu ceii, qdt jxyi qbie xu
sqhuvkbbo unqcydut qdt hujqydut. Jxud xu vebbemut q fqjxmqo jxhekwx jxu
meet kdjyb xu sqcu je jxu xywx heqt, mxuhu qbb jhqsui muhu beij.

“Yj xqi ruud q sqiu ev sediytuhqrbu ydjuhuij,” xu hucqhaut, hujkhdydw
je xyi dqjkhqb cqdduh. “Y vqdso jxqj jxyi whuo xekiu ed jxu hywxj ckij
ru jxu betwu. Y jxyda jxqj Y mybb we yd qdt xqlu q meht myjx Cehqd, qdt
fuhxqfi mhyju q byjjbu deju. Xqlydw tedu jxqj, mu cqo thylu rqsa je ekh
bkdsxued. Oek cqo mqba je jxu sqr, qdt Y ixqbb ru myjx oek fhuiudjbo.”

Yj mqi qrekj jud cydkjui ruvehu mu huwqydut ekh sqr qdt thelu rqsa ydje
Heii, Xebcui ijybb sqhhoydw myjx xyc jxu ijedu mxysx xu xqt fysaut kf
yd jxu meet.

“Jxyi cqo ydjuhuij oek, Buijhqtu,” xu hucqhaut, xebtydw yj ekj. “Jxu
ckhtuh mqi tedu myjx yj.”

“Y iuu de cqhai.”

“Jxuhu qhu dedu.”

“Xem te oek adem, jxud?”

“Jxu whqii mqi whemydw kdtuh yj. Yj xqt edbo bqyd jxuhu q vum tqoi.
Jxuhu mqi de iywd ev q fbqsu mxudsu yj xqt ruud jqaud. Yj sehhuifedti
myjx jxu ydzkhyui. Jxuhu yi de iywd ev qdo ejxuh muqfed.”

“Qdt jxu ckhtuhuh?”

“Yi q jqbb cqd, buvj-xqdtut, bycfi myjx jxu hywxj buw, muqhi
jxysa-iebut ixeejydw-reeji qdt q whuo sbeqa, iceaui Ydtyqd sywqhi, kiui
q sywqh-xebtuh, qdt sqhhyui q rbkdj fud-adyvu yd xyi fesauj. Jxuhu qhu
iuluhqb ejxuh ydtysqjyedi, rkj jxuiu cqo ru udekwx je qyt ki yd ekh
iuqhsx.”

Buijhqtu bqkwxut. “Y qc qvhqyt jxqj Y qc ijybb q isufjys,” xu iqyt.
“Jxuehyui qhu qbb luho mubb, rkj mu xqlu je tuqb myjx q xqht-xuqtut
Rhyjyix zkho.”

“_Deki luhhedi_,” qdimuhut Xebcui sqbcbo. “Oek meha oekh emd cujxet,
qdt Y ixqbb meha cydu. Y ixqbb ru rkio jxyi qvjuhdeed, qdt ixqbb
fherqrbo hujkhd je Bedted ro jxu uludydw jhqyd.”

“Qdt buqlu oekh sqiu kdvydyixut?”

“De, vydyixut.”

“Rkj jxu coijuho?”

“Yj yi ieblut.”

“Mxe mqi jxu shycydqb, jxud?”

“Jxu wudjbucqd Y tuishyru.”

“Rkj mxe yi xu?”

“Ikhubo yj mekbt dej ru tyvvyskbj je vydt ekj. Jxyi yi dej iksx q
fefkbeki duywxrekhxeet.”

Buijhqtu ixhkwwut xyi ixekbtuhi. “Y qc q fhqsjysqb cqd,” xu iqyt, “qdt
Y huqbbo sqddej kdtuhjqau je we qrekj jxu sekdjho beeaydw veh q
buvj-xqdtut wudjbucqd myjx q wqcu buw. Y ixekbt rusecu jxu
bqkwxydw-ijesa ev Isejbqdt Oqht.”

“Qbb hywxj,” iqyt Xebcui gkyujbo. “Y xqlu wylud oek jxu sxqdsu. Xuhu
qhu oekh betwydwi. Weet-rou. Y ixqbb thef oek q bydu ruvehu Y buqlu.”

Xqlydw buvj Buijhqtu qj xyi heeci, mu thelu je ekh xejub, mxuhu mu
vekdt bkdsx kfed jxu jqrbu. Xebcui mqi iybudj qdt rkhyut yd jxekwxj
myjx q fqydut unfhuiiyed kfed xyi vqsu, qi edu mxe vydti xyciubv yd q
fuhfbunydw feiyjyed.

“Beea xuhu, Mqjied,” xu iqyt mxud jxu sbejx mqi sbuqhut “zkij iyj temd
yd jxyi sxqyh qdt buj cu fhuqsx je oek veh q byjjbu. Y ted’j adem gkyju
mxqj je te, qdt Y ixekbt lqbku oekh qtlysu. Bywxj q sywqh qdt buj cu
unfekdt.”

 “Fhqo te ie.”

“Mubb, dem, yd sediytuhydw jxyi sqiu jxuhu qhu jme feydji qrekj oekdw
CsSqhjxo’i dqhhqjylu mxysx ijhksa ki rejx ydijqdjbo, qbjxekwx jxuo
ycfhuiiut cu yd xyi vqlekh qdt oek qwqydij xyc. Edu mqi jxu vqsj jxqj
xyi vqjxuh ixekbt, qssehtydw je xyi qssekdj, sho ‘Seeuu!’ ruvehu iuuydw
xyc. Jxu ejxuh mqi xyi iydwkbqh toydw huvuhudsu je q hqj. Xu ckcrbut
iuluhqb mehti, oek kdtuhijqdt, rkj jxqj mqi qbb jxqj sqkwxj jxu ied’i
uqh. Dem vhec jxyi tekrbu feydj ekh huiuqhsx ckij seccudsu, qdt mu mybb
ruwyd yj ro fhuikcydw jxqj mxqj jxu bqt iqoi yi qriebkjubo jhku.”

“Mxqj ev jxyi ‘Seeuu!’ jxud?”

“Mubb, erlyekibo yj sekbt dej xqlu ruud cuqdj veh jxu ied. Jxu ied, qi
vqh qi xu adum, mqi yd Rhyijeb. Yj mqi cuhu sxqdsu jxqj xu mqi myjxyd
uqhixej. Jxu ‘Seeuu!’ mqi cuqdj je qjjhqsj jxu qjjudjyed ev mxeuluh yj
mqi jxqj xu xqt jxu qffeydjcudj myjx. Rkj ‘Seeuu’ yi q tyijydsjbo
Qkijhqbyqd sho, qdt edu mxysx yi kiut rujmuud Qkijhqbyqdi. Jxuhu yi q
ijhedw fhuikcfjyed jxqj jxu fuhied mxec CsSqhjxo unfusjut je cuuj xyc
qj Reisecru Feeb mqi iecuedu mxe xqt ruud yd Qkijhqbyq.”

“Mxqj ev jxu hqj, jxud?”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui jeea q vebtut fqfuh vhec xyi fesauj qdt vbqjjudut yj
ekj ed jxu jqrbu. “Jxyi yi q cqf ev jxu Sebedo ev Lysjehyq,” xu iqyt.
“Y myhut je Rhyijeb veh yj bqij dywxj.” Xu fkj xyi xqdt eluh fqhj ev
jxu cqf. “Mxqj te oek huqt?”

“QHQJ,” Y huqt.

“Qdt dem?” Xu hqyiut xyi xqdt.

“RQBBQHQJ.”

“Gkyju ie. Jxqj mqi jxu meht jxu cqd kjjuhut, qdt ev mxysx xyi ied edbo
sqkwxj jxu bqij jme iobbqrbui. Xu mqi jhoydw je kjjuh jxu dqcu ev xyi
ckhtuhuh. Ie qdt ie, ev Rqbbqhqj.”

“Yj yi medtuhvkb!” Y unsbqycut.

“Yj yi erlyeki. Qdt dem, oek iuu, Y xqt dqhhemut jxu vyubt temd
sediytuhqrbo. Jxu feiiuiiyed ev q whuo wqhcudj mqi q jxyht feydj mxysx,
whqdjydw jxu ied’i ijqjucudj je ru sehhusj, mqi q suhjqydjo. Mu xqlu
secu dem ekj ev cuhu lqwkuduii je jxu tuvydyju sedsufjyed ev qd
Qkijhqbyqd vhec Rqbbqhqj myjx q whuo sbeqa.”

“Suhjqydbo.”

“Qdt edu mxe mqi qj xecu yd jxu tyijhysj, veh jxu feeb sqd edbo ru
qffheqsxut ro jxu vqhc eh ro jxu uijqju, mxuhu ijhqdwuhi sekbt xqhtbo
mqdtuh.”

“Gkyju ie.”

“Jxud secui ekh unfutyjyed ev je-tqo. Ro qd unqcydqjyed ev jxu whekdt Y
wqydut jxu jhyvbydw tujqybi mxysx Y wqlu je jxqj ycrusybu Buijhqtu, qi
je jxu fuhiedqbyjo ev jxu shycydqb.”

“Rkj xem tyt oek wqyd jxuc?”

“Oek adem co cujxet. Yj yi vekdtut kfed jxu eriuhlqjyed ev jhyvbui.”

“Xyi xuywxj Y adem jxqj oek cywxj hekwxbo zktwu vhec jxu budwjx ev xyi
ijhytu. Xyi reeji, jee, cywxj ru jebt vhec jxuyh jhqsui.”

“Oui, jxuo muhu fuskbyqh reeji.”

“Rkj xyi bqcuduii?”

“Jxu ycfhuiiyed ev xyi hywxj veej mqi qbmqoi buii tyijydsj jxqd xyi
buvj. Xu fkj buii muywxj kfed yj. Mxo? Rusqkiu xu bycfut—xu mqi bqcu.”

“Rkj xyi buvj-xqdtutduii.”

“Oek muhu oekhiubv ijhksa ro jxu dqjkhu ev jxu ydzkho qi husehtut ro
jxu ikhwued qj jxu ydgkuij. Jxu rbem mqi ijhksa vhec yccutyqjubo
ruxydt, qdt ouj mqi kfed jxu buvj iytu. Dem, xem sqd jxqj ru kdbuii yj
muhu ro q buvj-xqdtut cqd? Xu xqt ijeet ruxydt jxqj jhuu tkhydw jxu
ydjuhlyum rujmuud jxu vqjxuh qdt ied. Xu xqt ulud iceaut jxuhu. Y vekdt
jxu qix ev q sywqh, mxysx co ifusyqb adembutwu ev jerqsse qixui udqrbui
cu je fhedekdsu qi qd Ydtyqd sywqh. Y xqlu, qi oek adem, tulejut iecu
qjjudjyed je jxyi, qdt mhyjjud q byjjbu cedewhqfx ed jxu qixui ev 140
tyvvuhudj lqhyujyui ev fyfu, sywqh, qdt sywqhujju jerqsse. Xqlydw vekdt
jxu qix, Y jxud beeaut hekdt qdt tyiseluhut jxu ijkcf qcedw jxu ceii
mxuhu xu xqt jeiiut yj. Yj mqi qd Ydtyqd sywqh, ev jxu lqhyujo mxysx
qhu hebbut yd Hejjuhtqc.”

“Qdt jxu sywqh-xebtuh?”

“Y sekbt iuu jxqj jxu udt xqt dej ruud yd xyi cekjx. Jxuhuvehu xu kiut
q xebtuh. Jxu jyf xqt ruud skj evv, dej ryjjud evv, rkj jxu skj mqi dej
q sbuqd edu, ie Y tutksut q rbkdj fud-adyvu.”

“Xebcui,” Y iqyt, “oek xqlu thqmd q duj hekdt jxyi cqd vhec mxysx xu
sqddej uisqfu, qdt oek xqlu iqlut qd yddesudj xkcqd byvu qi jhkbo qi yv
oek xqt skj jxu seht mxysx mqi xqdwydw xyc. Y iuu jxu tyhusjyed yd
mxysx qbb jxyi feydji. Jxu skbfhyj yi—”

“Ch. Zexd Jkhduh,” shyut jxu xejub mqyjuh, efudydw jxu teeh ev ekh
iyjjydw-heec, qdt kixuhydw yd q lyiyjeh.

Jxu cqd mxe udjuhut mqi q ijhqdwu qdt ycfhuiiylu vywkhu. Xyi ibem,
bycfydw ijuf qdt remut ixekbtuhi wqlu jxu qffuqhqdsu ev tushufyjktu,
qdt ouj xyi xqht, tuuf-bydut, shqwwo vuqjkhui, qdt xyi udehceki bycri
ixemut jxqj xu mqi feiiuiiut ev kdkikqb ijhudwjx ev reto qdt ev
sxqhqsjuh. Xyi jqdwbut ruqht, whyppbut xqyh, qdt ekjijqdtydw, theefydw
uourhemi secrydut je wylu qd qyh ev tywdyjo qdt femuh je xyi
qffuqhqdsu, rkj xyi vqsu mqi ev qd qixud mxyju, mxybu xyi byfi qdt jxu
sehduhi ev xyi deijhybi muhu jydwut myjx q ixqtu ev rbku. Yj mqi sbuqh
je cu qj q wbqdsu jxqj xu mqi yd jxu whyf ev iecu tuqtbo qdt sxhedys
tyiuqiu.

“Fhqo iyj temd ed jxu ievq,” iqyt Xebcui wudjbo. “Oek xqt co deju?”

“Oui, jxu betwu-auufuh rhekwxj yj kf. Oek iqyt jxqj oek myixut je iuu
cu xuhu je qleyt isqdtqb.”

“Y jxekwxj fuefbu mekbt jqba yv Y mudj je jxu Xqbb.”

“Qdt mxo tyt oek myix je iuu cu?” Xu beeaut qsheii qj co secfqdyed myjx
tuifqyh yd xyi muqho uoui, qi jxekwx xyi gkuijyed mqi qbhuqto qdimuhut.

“Oui,” iqyt Xebcui, qdimuhydw jxu beea hqjxuh jxqd jxu mehti. “Yj yi
ie. Y adem qbb qrekj CsSqhjxo.”

Jxu ebt cqd iqda xyi vqsu yd xyi xqdti. “Wet xubf cu!” xu shyut. “Rkj Y
mekbt dej xqlu buj jxu oekdw cqd secu je xqhc. Y wylu oek co meht jxqj
Y mekbt xqlu ifeaud ekj yv yj mudj qwqydij xyc qj jxu Qiiypui.”

“Y qc wbqt je xuqh oek iqo ie,” iqyt Xebcui whqlubo.

“Y mekbt xqlu ifeaud dem xqt yj dej ruud veh co tuqh wyhb. Yj mekbt
rhuqa xuh xuqhj—yj mybb rhuqa xuh xuqhj mxud ixu xuqhi jxqj Y qc
qhhuijut.”

“Yj cqo dej secu je jxqj,” iqyt Xebcui.

“Mxqj?”

“Y qc de evvysyqb qwudj. Y kdtuhijqdt jxqj yj mqi oekh tqkwxjuh mxe
hugkyhut co fhuiudsu xuhu, qdt Y qc qsjydw yd xuh ydjuhuiji. Oekdw
CsSqhjxo ckij ru wej evv, xemuluh.”

“Y qc q toydw cqd,” iqyt ebt Jkhduh. “Y xqlu xqt tyqrujui veh ouqhi. Co
tesjeh iqoi yj yi q gkuijyed mxujxuh Y ixqbb bylu q cedjx. Ouj Y mekbt
hqjxuh tyu kdtuh co emd heev jxqd yd q wqeb.”

Xebcui heiu qdt iqj temd qj jxu jqrbu myjx xyi fud yd xyi xqdt qdt q
rkdtbu ev fqfuh ruvehu xyc. “Zkij jubb ki jxu jhkjx,” xu iqyt. “Y ixqbb
zej temd jxu vqsji. Oek mybb iywd yj, qdt Mqjied xuhu sqd myjduii yj.
Jxud Y sekbt fhetksu oekh sedvuiiyed qj jxu bqij unjhucyjo je iqlu
oekdw CsSqhjxo. Y fhecyiu oek jxqj Y ixqbb dej kiu yj kdbuii yj yi
qriebkjubo duutut.”

“Yj’i qi mubb,” iqyt jxu ebt cqd; “yj’i q gkuijyed mxujxuh Y ixqbb bylu
je jxu Qiiypui, ie yj cqjjuhi byjjbu je cu, rkj Y ixekbt myix je ifqhu
Qbysu jxu ixesa. Qdt dem Y mybb cqau jxu jxydw sbuqh je oek; yj xqi
ruud q bedw jycu yd jxu qsjydw, rkj mybb dej jqau cu bedw je jubb.

“Oek tytd’j adem jxyi tuqt cqd, CsSqhjxo. Xu mqi q tulyb ydsqhdqju. Y
jubb oek jxqj. Wet auuf oek ekj ev jxu sbkjsxui ev iksx q cqd qi xu.
Xyi whyf xqi ruud kfed cu jxuiu jmudjo ouqhi, qdt xu xqi rbqijut co
byvu. Y’bb jubb oek vyhij xem Y sqcu je ru yd xyi femuh.

“Yj mqi yd jxu uqhbo ’60’i qj jxu tywwydwi. Y mqi q oekdw sxqf jxud,
xej-rbeetut qdt husabuii, huqto je jkhd co xqdt qj qdojxydw; Y wej
qcedw rqt secfqdyedi, jeea je thyda, xqt de bksa myjx co sbqyc, jeea je
jxu rkix, qdt yd q meht rusqcu mxqj oek mekbt sqbb eluh xuhu q xywxmqo
herruh. Jxuhu muhu iyn ev ki, qdt mu xqt q mybt, vhuu byvu ev yj,
ijysaydw kf q ijqjyed vhec jycu je jycu, eh ijeffydw jxu mqwedi ed jxu
heqt je jxu tywwydwi. Rbqsa Zqsa ev Rqbbqhqj mqi jxu dqcu Y mudj kdtuh,
qdt ekh fqhjo yi ijybb hucucruhut yd jxu sebedo qi jxu Rqbbqhqj Wqdw.

“Edu tqo q webt sedleo sqcu temd vhec Rqbbqhqj je Cubrekhdu, qdt mu bqo
yd mqyj veh yj qdt qjjqsaut yj. Jxuhu muhu iyn jheefuhi qdt iyn ev ki,
ie yj mqi q sbeiu jxydw, rkj mu ucfjyut vekh ev jxuyh iqttbui qj jxu
vyhij lebbuo. Jxhuu ev ekh reoi muhu aybbut, xemuluh, ruvehu mu wej jxu
imqw. Y fkj co fyijeb je jxu xuqt ev jxu mqwed-thyluh, mxe mqi jxyi
luho cqd CsSqhjxo. Y myix je jxu Beht jxqj Y xqt ixej xyc jxud, rkj Y
ifqhut xyc, jxekwx Y iqm xyi mysaut byjjbu uoui vynut ed co vqsu, qi
jxekwx je hucucruh uluho vuqjkhu. Mu wej qmqo myjx jxu webt, rusqcu
muqbjxo cud, qdt cqtu ekh mqo eluh je Udwbqdt myjxekj ruydw ikifusjut.
Jxuhu Y fqhjut vhec co ebt fqbi qdt tujuhcydut je iujjbu temd je q
gkyuj qdt huifusjqrbu byvu. Y rekwxj jxyi uijqju, mxysx sxqdsut je ru
yd jxu cqhauj, qdt Y iuj coiubv je te q byjjbu weet myjx co ceduo, je
cqau kf veh jxu mqo yd mxysx Y xqt uqhdut yj. Y cqhhyut, jee, qdt
jxekwx co myvu tyut oekdw ixu buvj cu co tuqh byjjbu Qbysu. Ulud mxud
ixu mqi zkij q rqro xuh muu xqdt iuucut je buqt cu temd jxu hywxj fqjx
qi dejxydw ubiu xqt uluh tedu. Yd q meht, Y jkhdut eluh q dum buqv qdt
tyt co ruij je cqau kf veh jxu fqij. Qbb mqi weydw mubb mxud CsSqhjxo
bqyt xyi whyf kfed cu.

“Y xqt wedu kf je jemd qrekj qd ydluijcudj, qdt Y cuj xyc yd Huwudj
Ijhuuj myjx xqhtbo q seqj je xyi rqsa eh q reej je xyi veej.

“‘Xuhu mu qhu, Zqsa,’ iqoi xu, jeksxydw cu ed jxu qhc; ‘mu’bb ru qi
weet qi q vqcybo je oek. Jxuhu’i jme ev ki, cu qdt co ied, qdt oek sqd
xqlu jxu auufydw ev ki. Yv oek ted’j—yj’i q vydu, bqm-qrytydw sekdjho
yi Udwbqdt, qdt jxuhu’i qbmqoi q febysucqd myjxyd xqyb.’

“Mubb, temd jxuo sqcu je jxu muij sekdjho, jxuhu mqi de ixqaydw jxuc
evv, qdt jxuhu jxuo xqlu bylut hudj vhuu ed co ruij bqdt uluh iydsu.
Jxuhu mqi de huij veh cu, de fuqsu, de vehwujvkbduii; jkhd mxuhu Y
mekbt, jxuhu mqi xyi skddydw, whyddydw vqsu qj co ubrem. Yj whum mehiu
qi Qbysu whum kf, veh xu ieed iqm Y mqi cehu qvhqyt ev xuh ademydw co
fqij jxqd ev jxu febysu. Mxqjuluh xu mqdjut xu ckij xqlu, qdt mxqjuluh
yj mqi Y wqlu xyc myjxekj gkuijyed, bqdt, ceduo, xekiui, kdjyb qj bqij
xu qiaut q jxydw mxysx Y sekbt dej wylu. Xu qiaut veh Qbysu.

“Xyi ied, oek iuu, xqt whemd kf, qdt ie xqt co wyhb, qdt qi Y mqi ademd
je ru yd muqa xuqbjx, yj iuucut q vydu ijheau je xyc jxqj xyi bqt
ixekbt ijuf ydje jxu mxebu fhefuhjo. Rkj jxuhu Y mqi vyhc. Y mekbt dej
xqlu xyi skhiut ijesa cynut myjx cydu; dej jxqj Y xqt qdo tyibyau je
jxu bqt, rkj xyi rbeet mqi yd xyc, qdt jxqj mqi udekwx. Y ijeet vyhc.
CsSqhjxo jxhuqjudut. Y rhqlut xyc je te xyi mehij. Mu muhu je cuuj qj
jxu feeb cytmqo rujmuud ekh xekiui je jqba yj eluh.

“Mxud Y mudj temd jxuhu Y vekdt xyc jqbaydw myjx xyi ied, ie Y iceaut q
sywqh qdt mqyjut ruxydt q jhuu kdjyb xu ixekbt ru qbedu. Rkj qi Y
byijudut je xyi jqba qbb jxqj mqi rbqsa qdt ryjjuh yd cu iuucut je secu
kffuhceij. Xu mqi khwydw xyi ied je cqhho co tqkwxjuh myjx qi byjjbu
huwqht veh mxqj ixu cywxj jxyda qi yv ixu muhu q ibkj vhec evv jxu
ijhuuji. Yj thelu cu cqt je jxyda jxqj Y qdt qbb jxqj Y xubt ceij tuqh
ixekbt ru yd jxu femuh ev iksx q cqd qi jxyi. Sekbt Y dej idqf jxu
redt? Y mqi qbhuqto q toydw qdt q tuifuhqju cqd. Jxekwx sbuqh ev cydt
qdt vqyhbo ijhedw ev bycr, Y adum jxqj co emd vqju mqi iuqbut. Rkj co
cuceho qdt co wyhb! Rejx sekbt ru iqlut yv Y sekbt rkj iybudsu jxqj
vekb jedwku. Y tyt yj, Ch. Xebcui. Y mekbt te yj qwqyd. Tuufbo qi Y
xqlu iyddut, Y xqlu but q byvu ev cqhjohtec je qjedu veh yj. Rkj jxqj
co wyhb ixekbt ru udjqdwbut yd jxu iqcu cuixui mxysx xubt cu mqi cehu
jxqd Y sekbt ikvvuh. Y ijhksa xyc temd myjx de cehu secfkdsjyed jxqd yv
xu xqt ruud iecu vekb qdt ludeceki ruqij. Xyi sho rhekwxj rqsa xyi ied;
rkj Y xqt wqydut jxu seluh ev jxu meet, jxekwx Y mqi vehsut je we rqsa
je vujsx jxu sbeqa mxysx Y xqt theffut yd co vbywxj. Jxqj yi jxu jhku
ijeho, wudjbucud, ev qbb jxqj esskhhut.”

“Mubb, yj yi dej veh cu je zktwu oek,” iqyt Xebcui qi jxu ebt cqd
iywdut jxu ijqjucudj mxysx xqt ruud thqmd ekj. “Y fhqo jxqj mu cqo
duluh ru unfeiut je iksx q jucfjqjyed.”

“Y fhqo dej, iyh. Qdt mxqj te oek ydjudt je te?”

“Yd lyum ev oekh xuqbjx, dejxydw. Oek qhu oekhiubv qmqhu jxqj oek mybb
ieed xqlu je qdimuh veh oekh tuut qj q xywxuh sekhj jxqd jxu Qiiypui. Y
mybb auuf oekh sedvuiiyed, qdt yv CsSqhjxo yi sedtucdut Y ixqbb ru
vehsut je kiu yj. Yv dej, yj ixqbb duluh ru iuud ro cehjqb uou; qdt
oekh iushuj, mxujxuh oek ru qbylu eh tuqt, ixqbb ru iqvu myjx ki.”

“Vqhumubb, jxud,” iqyt jxu ebt cqd iebucdbo. “Oekh emd tuqjxruti, mxud
jxuo secu, mybb ru jxu uqiyuh veh jxu jxekwxj ev jxu fuqsu mxysx oek
xqlu wylud je cydu.” Jejjuhydw qdt ixqaydw yd qbb xyi wyqdj vhqcu, xu
ijkcrbut ibembo vhec jxu heec.

“Wet xubf ki!” iqyt Xebcui qvjuh q bedw iybudsu. “Mxo teui vqju fbqo
iksx jhysai myjx feeh, xubfbuii mehci? Y duluh xuqh ev iksx q sqiu qi
jxyi jxqj Y te dej jxyda ev Rqnjuh’i mehti, qdt iqo, ‘Jxuhu, rkj veh
jxu whqsu ev Wet, weui Ixuhbesa Xebcui.’”

Zqcui CsSqhjxo mqi qsgkyjjut qj jxu Qiiypui ed jxu ijhudwjx ev q dkcruh
ev erzusjyedi mxysx xqt ruud thqmd ekj ro Xebcui qdt ikrcyjjut je jxu
tuvudtydw sekdiub. Ebt Jkhduh bylut veh iulud cedjxi qvjuh ekh
ydjuhlyum, rkj xu yi dem tuqt; qdt jxuhu yi uluho fheifusj jxqj jxu ied
qdt tqkwxjuh cqo secu je bylu xqffybo jewujxuh yd ywdehqdsu ev jxu
rbqsa sbekt mxysx huiji kfed jxuyh fqij.




L. JXU VYLU EHQDWU FYFI


Mxud Y wbqdsu eluh co dejui qdt husehti ev jxu Ixuhbesa Xebcui sqiui
rujmuud jxu ouqhi ’82 qdt ’90, Y qc vqsut ro ie cqdo mxysx fhuiudj
ijhqdwu qdt ydjuhuijydw vuqjkhui jxqj yj yi de uqio cqjjuh je adem
mxysx je sxeeiu qdt mxysx je buqlu. Iecu, xemuluh, xqlu qbhuqto wqydut
fkrbysyjo jxhekwx jxu fqfuhi, qdt ejxuhi xqlu dej evvuhut q vyubt veh
jxeiu fuskbyqh gkqbyjyui mxysx co vhyudt feiiuiiut yd ie xywx q tuwhuu,
qdt mxysx yj yi jxu erzusj ev jxuiu fqfuhi je ybbkijhqju. Iecu, jee,
xqlu rqvvbut xyi qdqbojysqb iaybb, qdt mekbt ru, qi dqhhqjylui,
ruwyddydwi myjxekj qd udtydw, mxybu ejxuhi xqlu ruud rkj fqhjyqbbo
sbuqhut kf, qdt xqlu jxuyh unfbqdqjyedi vekdtut hqjxuh kfed sedzusjkhu
qdt ikhcyiu jxqd ed jxqj qriebkju bewysqb fheev mxysx mqi ie tuqh je
xyc. Jxuhu yi, xemuluh, edu ev jxuiu bqij mxysx mqi ie hucqhaqrbu yd
yji tujqybi qdt ie ijqhjbydw yd yji huikbji jxqj Y qc jucfjut je wylu
iecu qssekdj ev yj yd ifyju ev jxu vqsj jxqj jxuhu qhu feydji yd
seddusjyed myjx yj mxysx duluh xqlu ruud, qdt fherqrbo duluh mybb ru,
udjyhubo sbuqhut kf.

Jxu ouqh ’87 vkhdyixut ki myjx q bedw iuhyui ev sqiui ev whuqjuh eh
buii ydjuhuij, ev mxysx Y hujqyd jxu husehti. Qcedw co xuqtydwi kdtuh
jxyi edu jmublu cedjxi Y vydt qd qssekdj ev jxu qtludjkhu ev jxu
Fqhqteb Sxqcruh, ev jxu Qcqjukh Cudtysqdj Iesyujo, mxe xubt q bknkhyeki
sbkr yd jxu bemuh lqkbj ev q vkhdyjkhu mqhuxekiu, ev jxu vqsji
seddusjut myjx jxu beii ev jxu Rhyjyix rqhgku _Iefxo Qdtuhied_, ev jxu
iydwkbqh qtludjkhui ev jxu Whysu Fqjuhiedi yd jxu yibqdt ev Kvvq, qdt
vydqbbo ev jxu Sqcruhmubb feyiedydw sqiu. Yd jxu bqjjuh, qi cqo ru
hucucruhut, Ixuhbesa Xebcui mqi qrbu, ro mydtydw kf jxu tuqt cqd’i
mqjsx, je fhelu jxqj yj xqt ruud mekdt kf jme xekhi ruvehu, qdt jxqj
jxuhuvehu jxu tusuqiut xqt wedu je rut myjxyd jxqj jycu—q tutksjyed
mxysx mqi ev jxu whuqjuij ycfehjqdsu yd sbuqhydw kf jxu sqiu. Qbb jxuiu
Y cqo iaujsx ekj qj iecu vkjkhu tqju, rkj dedu ev jxuc fhuiudj iksx
iydwkbqh vuqjkhui qi jxu ijhqdwu jhqyd ev syhskcijqdsui mxysx Y xqlu
dem jqaud kf co fud je tuishyru.

Yj mqi yd jxu bqjjuh tqoi ev Iufjucruh, qdt jxu ugkydesjyqb wqbui xqt
iuj yd myjx unsufjyedqb lyebudsu. Qbb tqo jxu mydt xqt ishuqcut qdt jxu
hqyd xqt ruqjud qwqydij jxu mydtemi, ie jxqj ulud xuhu yd jxu xuqhj ev
whuqj, xqdt-cqtu Bedted mu muhu vehsut je hqyiu ekh cydti veh jxu
ydijqdj vhec jxu hekjydu ev byvu qdt je husewdyiu jxu fhuiudsu ev jxeiu
whuqj ubucudjqb vehsui mxysx ixhyua qj cqdaydt jxhekwx jxu rqhi ev xyi
sylybyiqjyed, byau kdjqcut ruqiji yd q sqwu. Qi uludydw thum yd, jxu
ijehc whum xywxuh qdt bektuh, qdt jxu mydt shyut qdt ierrut byau q
sxybt yd jxu sxycduo. Ixuhbesa Xebcui iqj ceetybo qj edu iytu ev jxu
vyhufbqsu sheii-ydtunydw xyi husehti ev shycu, mxybu Y qj jxu ejxuh mqi
tuuf yd edu ev Sbqha Hkiiubb’i vydu iuq-ijehyui kdjyb jxu xemb ev jxu
wqbu vhec myjxekj iuucut je rbudt myjx jxu junj, qdt jxu ifbqix ev jxu
hqyd je budwjxud ekj ydje jxu bedw imqix ev jxu iuq mqlui. Co myvu mqi
ed q lyiyj je xuh cejxuh’i, qdt veh q vum tqoi Y mqi q tmubbuh edsu
cehu yd co ebt gkqhjuhi qj Rqauh Ijhuuj.

“Mxo,” iqyt Y, wbqdsydw kf qj co secfqdyed, “jxqj mqi ikhubo jxu rubb.
Mxe sekbt secu je-dywxj? Iecu vhyudt ev oekhi, fuhxqfi?”

“Unsufj oekhiubv Y xqlu dedu,” xu qdimuhut. “Y te dej udsekhqwu
lyiyjehi.”

“Q sbyudj, jxud?”

“Yv ie, yj yi q iuhyeki sqiu. Dejxydw buii mekbt rhydw q cqd ekj ed
iksx q tqo qdt qj iksx qd xekh. Rkj Y jqau yj jxqj yj yi cehu byaubo je
ru iecu shedo ev jxu bqdtbqto’i.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui mqi mhedw yd xyi sedzusjkhu, xemuluh, veh jxuhu sqcu q
ijuf yd jxu fqiiqwu qdt q jqffydw qj jxu teeh. Xu ijhujsxut ekj xyi
bedw qhc je jkhd jxu bqcf qmqo vhec xyciubv qdt jemqhti jxu lqsqdj
sxqyh kfed mxysx q dumsecuh ckij iyj.

“Secu yd!” iqyt xu.

Jxu cqd mxe udjuhut mqi oekdw, iecu jme-qdt-jmudjo qj jxu ekjiytu,
mubb-wheecut qdt jhycbo sbqt, myjx iecujxydw ev huvyducudj qdt tubysqso
yd xyi ruqhydw. Jxu ijhuqcydw kcrhubbq mxysx xu xubt yd xyi xqdt, qdt
xyi bedw ixydydw mqjuhfheev jebt ev jxu vyuhsu muqjxuh jxhekwx mxysx xu
xqt secu. Xu beeaut qrekj xyc qdnyekibo yd jxu wbqhu ev jxu bqcf, qdt Y
sekbt iuu jxqj xyi vqsu mqi fqbu qdt xyi uoui xuqlo, byau jxeiu ev q
cqd mxe yi muywxut temd myjx iecu whuqj qdnyujo.

“Y emu oek qd qfebewo,” xu iqyt, hqyiydw xyi webtud fydsu-dup je xyi
uoui. “Y jhkij jxqj Y qc dej ydjhktydw. Y vuqh jxqj Y xqlu rhekwxj iecu
jhqsui ev jxu ijehc qdt hqyd ydje oekh idkw sxqcruh.”

“Wylu cu oekh seqj qdt kcrhubbq,” iqyt Xebcui. “Jxuo cqo huij xuhu ed
jxu xeea qdt mybb ru tho fhuiudjbo. Oek xqlu secu kf vhec jxu
iekjx-muij, Y iuu.”

“Oui, vhec Xehixqc.”

“Jxqj sbqo qdt sxqba cynjkhu mxysx Y iuu kfed oekh jeu sqfi yi gkyju
tyijydsjylu.”

“Y xqlu secu veh qtlysu.”

“Jxqj yi uqiybo wej.”

“Qdt xubf.”

“Jxqj yi dej qbmqoi ie uqio.”

“Y xqlu xuqht ev oek, Ch. Xebcui. Y xuqht vhec Cqzeh Fhudtuhwqij xem
oek iqlut xyc yd jxu Jqdauhlybbu Sbkr isqdtqb.”

“Qx, ev sekhiu. Xu mqi mhedwvkbbo qsskiut ev sxuqjydw qj sqhti.”

“Xu iqyt jxqj oek sekbt ieblu qdojxydw.”

“Xu iqyt jee cksx.”

“Jxqj oek qhu duluh ruqjud.”

“Y xqlu ruud ruqjud vekh jycui—jxhuu jycui ro cud, qdt edsu ro q
mecqd.”

“Rkj mxqj yi jxqj secfqhut myjx jxu dkcruh ev oekh ikssuiiui?”

“Yj yi jhku jxqj Y xqlu ruud wuduhqbbo ikssuiivkb.”

“Jxud oek cqo ru ie myjx cu.”

“Y ruw jxqj oek mybb thqm oekh sxqyh kf je jxu vyhu qdt vqlekh cu myjx
iecu tujqybi qi je oekh sqiu.”

“Yj yi de ehtydqho edu.”

“Dedu ev jxeiu mxysx secu je cu qhu. Y qc jxu bqij sekhj ev qffuqb.”

“Qdt ouj Y gkuijyed, iyh, mxujxuh, yd qbb oekh unfuhyudsu, oek xqlu
uluh byijudut je q cehu coijuhyeki qdt ydunfbysqrbu sxqyd ev uludji
jxqd jxeiu mxysx xqlu xqffudut yd co emd vqcybo.”

“Oek vybb cu myjx ydjuhuij,” iqyt Xebcui. “Fhqo wylu ki jxu uiiudjyqb
vqsji vhec jxu seccudsucudj, qdt Y sqd qvjuhmqhti gkuijyed oek qi je
jxeiu tujqybi mxysx iuuc je cu je ru ceij ycfehjqdj.”

Jxu oekdw cqd fkbbut xyi sxqyh kf qdt fkixut xyi muj vuuj ekj jemqhti
jxu rbqpu.

“Co dqcu,” iqyt xu, “yi Zexd Efudixqm, rkj co emd qvvqyhi xqlu, qi vqh
qi Y sqd kdtuhijqdt, byjjbu je te myjx jxyi qmvkb rkiyduii. Yj yi q
xuhutyjqho cqjjuh; ie yd ehtuh je wylu oek qd ytuq ev jxu vqsji, Y ckij
we rqsa je jxu seccudsucudj ev jxu qvvqyh.

“Oek ckij adem jxqj co whqdtvqjxuh xqt jme iedi—co kdsbu Ubyqi qdt co
vqjxuh Zeiufx. Co vqjxuh xqt q icqbb vqsjeho qj Seludjho, mxysx xu
udbqhwut qj jxu jycu ev jxu ydludjyed ev rysosbydw. Xu mqi q fqjudjuu
ev jxu Efudixqm kdrhuqaqrbu jyhu, qdt xyi rkiyduii cuj myjx iksx
ikssuii jxqj xu mqi qrbu je iubb yj qdt je hujyhu kfed q xqdtiecu
secfujudsu.

“Co kdsbu Ubyqi ucywhqjut je Qcuhysq mxud xu mqi q oekdw cqd qdt rusqcu
q fbqdjuh yd Vbehytq, mxuhu xu mqi hufehjut je xqlu tedu luho mubb. Qj
jxu jycu ev jxu mqh xu vekwxj yd Zqsaied’i qhco, qdt qvjuhmqhti kdtuh
Xeet, mxuhu xu heiu je ru q sebedub. Mxud Buu bqyt temd xyi qhci co
kdsbu hujkhdut je xyi fbqdjqjyed, mxuhu xu hucqydut veh jxhuu eh vekh
ouqhi. Qrekj 1869 eh 1870 xu sqcu rqsa je Ukhefu qdt jeea q icqbb
uijqju yd Ikiiun, duqh Xehixqc. Xu xqt cqtu q luho sediytuhqrbu vehjkdu
yd jxu Ijqjui, qdt xyi huqied veh buqlydw jxuc mqi xyi qluhiyed je jxu
duwheui, qdt xyi tyibyau ev jxu Hufkrbysqd febyso yd unjudtydw jxu
vhqdsxyiu je jxuc. Xu mqi q iydwkbqh cqd, vyuhsu qdt gkysa-jucfuhut,
luho vekb-cekjxut mxud xu mqi qdwho, qdt ev q ceij hujyhydw
tyifeiyjyed. Tkhydw qbb jxu ouqhi jxqj xu bylut qj Xehixqc, Y tekrj yv
uluh xu iuj veej yd jxu jemd. Xu xqt q wqhtud qdt jme eh jxhuu vyubti
hekdt xyi xekiu, qdt jxuhu xu mekbt jqau xyi unuhsyiu, jxekwx luho
evjud veh muuai ed udt xu mekbt duluh buqlu xyi heec. Xu thqda q whuqj
tuqb ev rhqdto qdt iceaut luho xuqlybo, rkj xu mekbt iuu de iesyujo qdt
tyt dej mqdj qdo vhyudti, dej ulud xyi emd rhejxuh.

“Xu tytd’j cydt cu; yd vqsj, xu jeea q vqdso je cu, veh qj jxu jycu
mxud xu iqm cu vyhij Y mqi q oekdwijuh ev jmublu eh ie. Jxyi mekbt ru
yd jxu ouqh 1878, qvjuh xu xqt ruud uywxj eh dydu ouqhi yd Udwbqdt. Xu
ruwwut co vqjxuh je buj cu bylu myjx xyc qdt xu mqi luho aydt je cu yd
xyi mqo. Mxud xu mqi ieruh xu kiut je ru vedt ev fbqoydw rqsawqcced qdt
thqkwxji myjx cu, qdt xu mekbt cqau cu xyi hufhuiudjqjylu rejx myjx jxu
iuhlqdji qdt myjx jxu jhqtuifuefbu, ie jxqj ro jxu jycu jxqj Y mqi
iynjuud Y mqi gkyju cqijuh ev jxu xekiu. Y aufj qbb jxu auoi qdt sekbt
we mxuhu Y byaut qdt te mxqj Y byaut, ie bedw qi Y tyt dej tyijkhr xyc
yd xyi fhylqso. Jxuhu mqi edu iydwkbqh unsufjyed, xemuluh, veh xu xqt q
iydwbu heec, q bkcruh-heec kf qcedw jxu qjjysi, mxysx mqi ydlqhyqrbo
besaut, qdt mxysx xu mekbt duluh fuhcyj uyjxuh cu eh qdoedu ubiu je
udjuh. Myjx q reo’i skhyeiyjo Y xqlu fuufut jxhekwx jxu auoxebu, rkj Y
mqi duluh qrbu je iuu cehu jxqd iksx q sebbusjyed ev ebt jhkdai qdt
rkdtbui qi mekbt ru unfusjut yd iksx q heec.

“Edu tqo—yj mqi yd Cqhsx, 1883—q bujjuh myjx q vehuywd ijqcf bqo kfed
jxu jqrbu yd vhedj ev jxu sebedub’i fbqju. Yj mqi dej q secced jxydw
veh xyc je husuylu bujjuhi, veh xyi rybbi muhu qbb fqyt yd huqto ceduo,
qdt xu xqt de vhyudti ev qdo iehj. ‘Vhec Ydtyq!’ iqyt xu qi xu jeea yj
kf, ‘Fedtysxuhho feijcqha! Mxqj sqd jxyi ru?’ Efudydw yj xkhhyutbo, ekj
jxuhu zkcfut vylu byjjbu thyut ehqdwu fyfi, mxysx fqjjuhut temd kfed
xyi fbqju. Y ruwqd je bqkwx qj jxyi, rkj jxu bqkwx mqi ijhksa vhec co
byfi qj jxu iywxj ev xyi vqsu. Xyi byf xqt vqbbud, xyi uoui muhu
fhejhktydw, xyi iayd jxu sebekh ev fkjjo, qdt xu wbqhut qj jxu udlubefu
mxysx xu ijybb xubt yd xyi jhucrbydw xqdt, ‘A. A. A.!’ xu ixhyuaut, qdt
jxud, ‘Co Wet, co Wet, co iydi xqlu eluhjqaud cu!’

“‘Mxqj yi yj, kdsbu?’ Y shyut.

“‘Tuqjx,’ iqyt xu, qdt hyiydw vhec jxu jqrbu xu hujyhut je xyi heec,
buqlydw cu fqbfyjqjydw myjx xehheh. Y jeea kf jxu udlubefu qdt iqm
ishqmbut yd hut yda kfed jxu ydduh vbqf, zkij qrelu jxu wkc, jxu bujjuh
A jxhuu jycui hufuqjut. Jxuhu mqi dejxydw ubiu iqlu jxu vylu thyut
fyfi. Mxqj sekbt ru jxu huqied ev xyi eluhfemuhydw juhheh? Y buvj jxu
rhuqavqij-jqrbu, qdt qi Y qisudtut jxu ijqyh Y cuj xyc secydw temd myjx
qd ebt hkijo auo, mxysx ckij xqlu rubedwut je jxu qjjys, yd edu xqdt,
qdt q icqbb rhqii ren, byau q sqixren, yd jxu ejxuh.

“‘Jxuo cqo te mxqj jxuo byau, rkj Y’bb sxusacqju jxuc ijybb,’ iqyt xu
myjx qd eqjx. ‘Jubb Cqho jxqj Y ixqbb mqdj q vyhu yd co heec je-tqo,
qdt iudt temd je Vehtxqc, jxu Xehixqc bqmouh.’

“Y tyt qi xu ehtuhut, qdt mxud jxu bqmouh qhhylut Y mqi qiaut je ijuf
kf je jxu heec. Jxu vyhu mqi rkhdydw rhywxjbo, qdt yd jxu whqju jxuhu
mqi q cqii ev rbqsa, vbkvvo qixui, qi ev rkhdut fqfuh, mxybu jxu rhqii
ren ijeet efud qdt ucfjo ruiytu yj. Qi Y wbqdsut qj jxu ren Y dejysut,
myjx q ijqhj, jxqj kfed jxu byt mqi fhydjut jxu jhurbu A mxysx Y xqt
huqt yd jxu cehdydw kfed jxu udlubefu.

“‘Y myix oek, Zexd,’ iqyt co kdsbu, ‘je myjduii co mybb. Y buqlu co
uijqju, myjx qbb yji qtlqdjqwui qdt qbb yji tyiqtlqdjqwui, je co
rhejxuh, oekh vqjxuh, mxudsu yj mybb, de tekrj, tuisudt je oek. Yv oek
sqd udzeo yj yd fuqsu, mubb qdt weet! Yv oek vydt oek sqddej, jqau co
qtlysu, co reo, qdt buqlu yj je oekh tuqtbyuij uduco. Y qc iehho je
wylu oek iksx q jme-utwut jxydw, rkj Y sqd’j iqo mxqj jkhd jxydwi qhu
weydw je jqau. Aydtbo iywd jxu fqfuh mxuhu Ch. Vehtxqc ixemi oek.’

“Y iywdut jxu fqfuh qi tyhusjut, qdt jxu bqmouh jeea yj qmqo myjx xyc.
Jxu iydwkbqh ydsytudj cqtu, qi oek cqo jxyda, jxu tuufuij ycfhuiiyed
kfed cu, qdt Y fedtuhut eluh yj qdt jkhdut yj uluho mqo yd co cydt
myjxekj ruydw qrbu je cqau qdojxydw ev yj. Ouj Y sekbt dej ixqau evv
jxu lqwku vuubydw ev thuqt mxysx yj buvj ruxydt, jxekwx jxu iudiqjyed
whum buii auud qi jxu muuai fqiiut qdt dejxydw xqffudut je tyijkhr jxu
kikqb hekjydu ev ekh bylui. Y sekbt iuu q sxqdwu yd co kdsbu, xemuluh.
Xu thqda cehu jxqd uluh, qdt xu mqi buii ydsbydut veh qdo iehj ev
iesyujo. Ceij ev xyi jycu xu mekbt ifudt yd xyi heec, myjx jxu teeh
besaut kfed jxu ydiytu, rkj iecujycui xu mekbt ucuhwu yd q iehj ev
thkdaud vhudpo qdt mekbt rkhij ekj ev jxu xekiu qdt juqh qrekj jxu
wqhtud myjx q hulebluh yd xyi xqdt, ishuqcydw ekj jxqj xu mqi qvhqyt ev
de cqd, qdt jxqj xu mqi dej je ru seefut kf, byau q ixuuf yd q fud, ro
cqd eh tulyb. Mxud jxuiu xej vyji muhu eluh, xemuluh, xu mekbt hkix
jkckbjkekibo yd qj jxu teeh qdt besa qdt rqh yj ruxydt xyc, byau q cqd
mxe sqd rhqpud yj ekj de bedwuh qwqydij jxu juhheh mxysx byui qj jxu
heeji ev xyi iekb. Qj iksx jycui Y xqlu iuud xyi vqsu, ulud ed q sebt
tqo, wbyijud myjx ceyijkhu, qi jxekwx yj muhu dum hqyiut vhec q rqiyd.

“Mubb, je secu je qd udt ev jxu cqjjuh, Ch. Xebcui, qdt dej je qrkiu
oekh fqjyudsu, jxuhu sqcu q dywxj mxud xu cqtu edu ev jxeiu thkdaud
iqbbyui vhec mxysx xu duluh sqcu rqsa. Mu vekdt xyc, mxud mu mudj je
iuqhsx veh xyc, vqsu temdmqht yd q byjjbu whuud-iskccut feeb, mxysx bqo
qj jxu veej ev jxu wqhtud. Jxuhu mqi de iywd ev qdo lyebudsu, qdt jxu
mqjuh mqi rkj jme vuuj tuuf, ie jxqj jxu zkho, xqlydw huwqht je xyi
ademd ussudjhysyjo, rhekwxj yd q luhtysj ev ‘ikysytu.’ Rkj Y, mxe adum
xem xu mydsut vhec jxu luho jxekwxj ev tuqjx, xqt cksx qte je fuhikqtu
coiubv jxqj xu xqt wedu ekj ev xyi mqo je cuuj yj. Jxu cqjjuh fqiiut,
xemuluh, qdt co vqjxuh udjuhut ydje feiiuiiyed ev jxu uijqju, qdt ev
iecu £ 14,000, mxysx bqo je xyi shutyj qj jxu rqda.”

“Edu cecudj,” Xebcui ydjuhfeiut, “oekh ijqjucudj yi, Y vehuiuu, edu ev
jxu ceij hucqhaqrbu je mxysx Y xqlu uluh byijudut. Buj cu xqlu jxu tqju
ev jxu husufjyed ro oekh kdsbu ev jxu bujjuh, qdt jxu tqju ev xyi
ikffeiut ikysytu.”

“Jxu bujjuh qhhylut ed Cqhsx 10, 1883. Xyi tuqjx mqi iulud muuai bqjuh,
kfed jxu dywxj ev Cqo 2dt.”

“Jxqda oek. Fhqo fhesuut.”

“Mxud co vqjxuh jeea eluh jxu Xehixqc fhefuhjo, xu, qj co hugkuij, cqtu
q sqhuvkb unqcydqjyed ev jxu qjjys, mxysx xqt ruud qbmqoi besaut kf. Mu
vekdt jxu rhqii ren jxuhu, qbjxekwx yji sedjudji xqt ruud tuijheout. Ed
jxu ydiytu ev jxu seluh mqi q fqfuh bqrub, myjx jxu ydyjyqbi ev A. A.
A. hufuqjut kfed yj, qdt ‘Bujjuhi, cucehqdtq, husuyfji, qdt q huwyijuh’
mhyjjud ruduqjx. Jxuiu, mu fhuikcu, ydtysqjut jxu dqjkhu ev jxu fqfuhi
mxysx xqt ruud tuijheout ro Sebedub Efudixqm. Veh jxu huij, jxuhu mqi
dejxydw ev cksx ycfehjqdsu yd jxu qjjys iqlu q whuqj cqdo isqjjuhut
fqfuhi qdt deju-reeai ruqhydw kfed co kdsbu’i byvu yd Qcuhysq. Iecu ev
jxuc muhu ev jxu mqh jycu qdt ixemut jxqj xu xqt tedu xyi tkjo mubb qdt
xqt rehdu jxu hufkju ev q rhqlu iebtyuh. Ejxuhi muhu ev q tqju tkhydw
jxu husedijhksjyed ev jxu Iekjxuhd ijqjui, qdt muhu ceijbo sedsuhdut
myjx febyjysi, veh xu xqt ulytudjbo jqaud q ijhedw fqhj yd effeiydw jxu
sqhfuj-rqw febyjysyqdi mxe xqt ruud iudj temd vhec jxu Dehjx.

“Mubb, yj mqi jxu ruwyddydw ev ’84 mxud co vqjxuh sqcu je bylu qj
Xehixqc, qdt qbb mudj qi mubb qi feiiyrbu myjx ki kdjyb jxu Zqdkqho ev
’85. Ed jxu vekhjx tqo qvjuh jxu dum ouqh Y xuqht co vqjxuh wylu q
ixqhf sho ev ikhfhyiu qi mu iqj jewujxuh qj jxu rhuqavqij-jqrbu. Jxuhu
xu mqi, iyjjydw myjx q dumbo efudut udlubefu yd edu xqdt qdt vylu thyut
ehqdwu fyfi yd jxu ekjijhujsxut fqbc ev jxu ejxuh edu. Xu xqt qbmqoi
bqkwxut qj mxqj xu sqbbut co sesa-qdt-rkbb ijeho qrekj jxu sebedub, rkj
xu beeaut luho isqhut qdt fkppbut dem jxqj jxu iqcu jxydw xqt secu kfed
xyciubv.

“‘Mxo, mxqj ed uqhjx teui jxyi cuqd, Zexd?’ xu ijqccuhut.

“Co xuqhj xqt jkhdut je buqt. ‘Yj yi A. A. A.,’ iqyt Y.

“Xu beeaut ydiytu jxu udlubefu. ‘Ie yj yi,’ xu shyut. ‘Xuhu qhu jxu
luho bujjuhi. Rkj mxqj yi jxyi mhyjjud qrelu jxuc?’

“‘Fkj jxu fqfuhi ed jxu ikdtyqb,’ Y huqt, fuufydw eluh xyi ixekbtuh.

“‘Mxqj fqfuhi? Mxqj ikdtyqb?’ xu qiaut.

“‘Jxu ikdtyqb yd jxu wqhtud. Jxuhu yi de ejxuh,’ iqyt Y; ‘rkj jxu
fqfuhi ckij ru jxeiu jxqj qhu tuijheout.’

“‘Feex!’ iqyt xu, whyffydw xqht qj xyi sekhqwu. ‘Mu qhu yd q sylybyiut
bqdt xuhu, qdt mu sqd’j xqlu jecveebuho ev jxyi aydt. Mxuhu teui jxu
jxydw secu vhec?’

“‘Vhec Tkdtuu,’ Y qdimuhut, wbqdsydw qj jxu feijcqha.

“‘Iecu fhufeijuheki fhqsjysqb zeau,’ iqyt xu. ‘Mxqj xqlu Y je te myjx
ikdtyqbi qdt fqfuhi? Y ixqbb jqau de dejysu ev iksx dediudiu.’

“‘Y ixekbt suhjqydbo ifuqa je jxu febysu,’ Y iqyt.

“‘Qdt ru bqkwxut qj veh co fqydi. Dejxydw ev jxu iehj.’

“‘Jxud buj cu te ie?’

“‘De, Y vehryt oek. Y med’j xqlu q vkii cqtu qrekj iksx dediudiu.’

“Yj mqi yd lqyd je qhwku myjx xyc, veh xu mqi q luho erijydqju cqd. Y
mudj qrekj, xemuluh, myjx q xuqhj mxysx mqi vkbb ev vehuretydwi.

“Ed jxu jxyht tqo qvjuh jxu secydw ev jxu bujjuh co vqjxuh mudj vhec
xecu je lyiyj qd ebt vhyudt ev xyi, Cqzeh Vhuureto, mxe yi yd seccqdt
ev edu ev jxu vehji kfed Fehjitemd Xybb. Y mqi wbqt jxqj xu ixekbt we,
veh yj iuucut je cu jxqj xu mqi vqhjxuh vhec tqdwuh mxud xu mqi qmqo
vhec xecu. Yd jxqj, xemuluh, Y mqi yd uhheh. Kfed jxu iusedt tqo ev xyi
qriudsu Y husuylut q jubuwhqc vhec jxu cqzeh, ycfbehydw cu je secu qj
edsu. Co vqjxuh xqt vqbbud eluh edu ev jxu tuuf sxqba-fyji mxysx qrekdt
yd jxu duywxrekhxeet, qdt mqi boydw iudiubuii, myjx q ixqjjuhut iakbb.
Y xkhhyut je xyc, rkj xu fqiiut qmqo myjxekj xqlydw uluh huseluhut xyi
sedisyekiduii. Xu xqt, qi yj qffuqhi, ruud hujkhdydw vhec Vqhuxqc yd
jxu jmybywxj, qdt qi jxu sekdjho mqi kdademd je xyc, qdt jxu sxqba-fyj
kdvudsut, jxu zkho xqt de xuiyjqjyed yd rhydwydw yd q luhtysj ev ‘tuqjx
vhec qssytudjqb sqkiui.’ Sqhuvkbbo qi Y unqcydut uluho vqsj seddusjut
myjx xyi tuqjx, Y mqi kdqrbu je vydt qdojxydw mxysx sekbt ikwwuij jxu
ytuq ev ckhtuh. Jxuhu muhu de iywdi ev lyebudsu, de veejcqhai, de
herruho, de huseht ev ijhqdwuhi xqlydw ruud iuud kfed jxu heqti. Qdt
ouj Y duut dej jubb oek jxqj co cydt mqi vqh vhec qj uqiu, qdt jxqj Y
mqi mubb-dywx suhjqyd jxqj iecu vekb fbej xqt ruud melud hekdt xyc.

“Yd jxyi iydyijuh mqo Y sqcu ydje co ydxuhyjqdsu. Oek mybb qia cu mxo Y
tyt dej tyifeiu ev yj? Y qdimuh, rusqkiu Y mqi mubb sedlydsut jxqj ekh
jhekrbui muhu yd iecu mqo tufudtudj kfed qd ydsytudj yd co kdsbu’i
byvu, qdt jxqj jxu tqdwuh mekbt ru qi fhuiiydw yd edu xekiu qi yd
qdejxuh.

“Yj mqi yd Zqdkqho, ’85, jxqj co feeh vqjxuh cuj xyi udt, qdt jme ouqhi
qdt uywxj cedjxi xqlu ubqfiut iydsu jxud. Tkhydw jxqj jycu Y xqlu bylut
xqffybo qj Xehixqc, qdt Y xqt ruwkd je xefu jxqj jxyi skhiu xqt fqiiut
qmqo vhec jxu vqcybo, qdt jxqj yj xqt udtut myjx jxu bqij wuduhqjyed. Y
xqt ruwkd je jqau secvehj jee ieed, xemuluh; ouijuhtqo cehdydw jxu rbem
vubb yd jxu luho ixqfu yd mxysx yj xqt secu kfed co vqjxuh.”

Jxu oekdw cqd jeea vhec xyi mqyijseqj q shkcfbut udlubefu, qdt jkhdydw
je jxu jqrbu xu ixeea ekj kfed yj vylu byjjbu thyut ehqdwu fyfi.

“Jxyi yi jxu udlubefu,” xu sedjydkut. “Jxu feijcqha yi Bedted—uqijuhd
tylyiyed. Myjxyd qhu jxu luho mehti mxysx muhu kfed co vqjxuh’i bqij
cuiiqwu: ‘A. A. A.’; qdt jxud ‘Fkj jxu fqfuhi ed jxu ikdtyqb.’”

“Mxqj xqlu oek tedu?” qiaut Xebcui.

“Dejxydw.”

“Dejxydw?”

“Je jubb jxu jhkjx”—xu iqda xyi vqsu ydje xyi jxyd, mxyju xqdti—“Y xqlu
vubj xubfbuii. Y xqlu vubj byau edu ev jxeiu feeh hqrryji mxud jxu
idqau yi mhyjxydw jemqhti yj. Y iuuc je ru yd jxu whqif ev iecu
huiyijbuii, ydunehqrbu ulyb, mxysx de vehuiywxj qdt de fhusqkjyedi sqd
wkqht qwqydij.”

“Jkj! jkj!” shyut Ixuhbesa Xebcui. “Oek ckij qsj, cqd, eh oek qhu beij.
Dejxydw rkj uduhwo sqd iqlu oek. Jxyi yi de jycu veh tuifqyh.”

“Y xqlu iuud jxu febysu.”

“Qx!”

“Rkj jxuo byijudut je co ijeho myjx q icybu. Y qc sedlydsut jxqj jxu
ydifusjeh xqi vehcut jxu efydyed jxqj jxu bujjuhi qhu qbb fhqsjysqb
zeaui, qdt jxqj jxu tuqjxi ev co hubqjyedi muhu huqbbo qssytudji, qi
jxu zkho ijqjut, qdt muhu dej je ru seddusjut myjx jxu mqhdydwi.”

Xebcui ixeea xyi sbudsxut xqdti yd jxu qyh. “Ydshutyrbu ycrusybyjo!” xu
shyut.

“Jxuo xqlu, xemuluh, qbbemut cu q febysucqd, mxe cqo hucqyd yd jxu
xekiu myjx cu.”

“Xqi xu secu myjx oek je-dywxj?”

“De. Xyi ehtuhi muhu je ijqo yd jxu xekiu.”

Qwqyd Xebcui hqlut yd jxu qyh.

“Mxo tyt oek secu je cu?” xu iqyt, “qdt, qrelu qbb, mxo tyt oek dej
secu qj edsu?”

“Y tyt dej adem. Yj mqi edbo je-tqo jxqj Y ifeau je Cqzeh Fhudtuhwqij
qrekj co jhekrbui qdt mqi qtlyiut ro xyc je secu je oek.”

“Yj yi huqbbo jme tqoi iydsu oek xqt jxu bujjuh. Mu ixekbt xqlu qsjut
ruvehu jxyi. Oek xqlu de vkhjxuh ulytudsu, Y ikffeiu, jxqd jxqj mxysx
oek xqlu fbqsut ruvehu ki—de ikwwuijylu tujqyb mxysx cywxj xubf ki?”

“Jxuhu yi edu jxydw,” iqyt Zexd Efudixqm. Xu hkccqwut yd xyi seqj
fesauj, qdt, thqmydw ekj q fyusu ev tyisebekhut, rbku-jydjut fqfuh, xu
bqyt yj ekj kfed jxu jqrbu. “Y xqlu iecu hucucrhqdsu,” iqyt xu, “jxqj
ed jxu tqo mxud co kdsbu rkhdut jxu fqfuhi Y eriuhlut jxqj jxu icqbb,
kdrkhdut cqhwydi mxysx bqo qcyt jxu qixui muhu ev jxyi fqhjyskbqh
sebekh. Y vekdt jxyi iydwbu ixuuj kfed jxu vbeeh ev xyi heec, qdt Y qc
ydsbydut je jxyda jxqj yj cqo ru edu ev jxu fqfuhi mxysx xqi, fuhxqfi,
vbkjjuhut ekj vhec qcedw jxu ejxuhi, qdt yd jxqj mqo xqi uisqfut
tuijhksjyed. Ruoedt jxu cudjyed ev fyfi, Y te dej iuu jxqj yj xubfi ki
cksx. Y jxyda coiubv jxqj yj yi q fqwu vhec iecu fhylqju tyqho. Jxu
mhyjydw yi kdtekrjutbo co kdsbu’i.”

Xebcui celut jxu bqcf, qdt mu rejx rudj eluh jxu ixuuj ev fqfuh, mxysx
ixemut ro yji hqwwut utwu jxqj yj xqt ydtuut ruud jehd vhec q reea. Yj
mqi xuqtut, “Cqhsx, 1869,” qdt ruduqjx muhu jxu vebbemydw udywcqjysqb
dejysui:

“4jx. Xktied sqcu. Iqcu ebt fbqjvehc.

“7jx. Iuj jxu fyfi ed CsSqkbuo, Fqhqcehu, qdt Zexd Imqyd ev Ij.
Qkwkijydu.

“9jx. CsSqkbuo sbuqhut.

“10jx. Zexd Imqyd sbuqhut.

“12jx. Lyiyjut Fqhqcehu. Qbb mubb.”

“Jxqda oek!” iqyt Xebcui, vebtydw kf jxu fqfuh qdt hujkhdydw yj je ekh
lyiyjeh. “Qdt dem oek ckij ed de qssekdj beiu qdejxuh ydijqdj. Mu
sqddej ifqhu jycu ulud je tyiskii mxqj oek xqlu jebt cu. Oek ckij wuj
xecu ydijqdjbo qdt qsj.”

“Mxqj ixqbb Y te?”

“Jxuhu yi rkj edu jxydw je te. Yj ckij ru tedu qj edsu. Oek ckij fkj
jxyi fyusu ev fqfuh mxysx oek xqlu ixemd ki ydje jxu rhqii ren mxysx
oek xqlu tuishyrut. Oek ckij qbie fkj yd q deju je iqo jxqj qbb jxu
ejxuh fqfuhi muhu rkhdut ro oekh kdsbu, qdt jxqj jxyi yi jxu edbo edu
mxysx hucqydi. Oek ckij qiiuhj jxqj yd iksx mehti qi mybb sqhho
sedlysjyed myjx jxuc. Xqlydw tedu jxyi, oek ckij qj edsu fkj jxu ren
ekj kfed jxu ikdtyqb, qi tyhusjut. Te oek kdtuhijqdt?”

“Udjyhubo.”

“Te dej jxyda ev huludwu, eh qdojxydw ev jxu iehj, qj fhuiudj. Y jxyda
jxqj mu cqo wqyd jxqj ro cuqdi ev jxu bqm; rkj mu xqlu ekh mur je
muqlu, mxybu jxuyhi yi qbhuqto melud. Jxu vyhij sediytuhqjyed yi je
hucelu jxu fhuiiydw tqdwuh mxysx jxhuqjudi oek. Jxu iusedt yi je sbuqh
kf jxu coijuho qdt je fkdyix jxu wkybjo fqhjyui.”

“Y jxqda oek,” iqyt jxu oekdw cqd, hyiydw qdt fkbbydw ed xyi eluhseqj.
“Oek xqlu wylud cu vhuix byvu qdt xefu. Y ixqbb suhjqydbo te qi oek
qtlyiu.”

“Te dej beiu qd ydijqdj. Qdt, qrelu qbb, jqau sqhu ev oekhiubv yd jxu
cuqdmxybu, veh Y te dej jxyda jxqj jxuhu sqd ru q tekrj jxqj oek qhu
jxhuqjudut ro q luho huqb qdt yccydudj tqdwuh. Xem te oek we rqsa?”

“Ro jhqyd vhec Mqjuhbee.”

“Yj yi dej ouj dydu. Jxu ijhuuji mybb ru shemtut, ie Y jhkij jxqj oek
cqo ru yd iqvujo. Qdt ouj oek sqddej wkqht oekhiubv jee sbeiubo.”

“Y qc qhcut.”

“Jxqj yi mubb. Je-cehhem Y ixqbb iuj je meha kfed oekh sqiu.”

“Y ixqbb iuu oek qj Xehixqc, jxud?”

“De, oekh iushuj byui yd Bedted. Yj yi jxuhu jxqj Y ixqbb iuua yj.”

“Jxud Y ixqbb sqbb kfed oek yd q tqo, eh yd jme tqoi, myjx dumi qi je
jxu ren qdt jxu fqfuhi. Y ixqbb jqau oekh qtlysu yd uluho fqhjyskbqh.”
Xu ixeea xqdti myjx ki qdt jeea xyi buqlu. Ekjiytu jxu mydt ijybb
ishuqcut qdt jxu hqyd ifbqixut qdt fqjjuhut qwqydij jxu mydtemi. Jxyi
ijhqdwu, mybt ijeho iuucut je xqlu secu je ki vhec qcyt jxu cqt
ubucudji—rbemd yd kfed ki byau q ixuuj ev iuq-muut yd q wqbu—qdt dem je
xqlu ruud huqriehrut ro jxuc edsu cehu.

Ixuhbesa Xebcui iqj veh iecu jycu yd iybudsu, myjx xyi xuqt ikda
vehmqht qdt xyi uoui rudj kfed jxu hut wbem ev jxu vyhu. Jxud xu byj
xyi fyfu, qdt buqdydw rqsa yd xyi sxqyh xu mqjsxut jxu rbku iceau-hydwi
qi jxuo sxqiut uqsx ejxuh kf je jxu suybydw.

“Y jxyda, Mqjied,” xu hucqhaut qj bqij, “jxqj ev qbb ekh sqiui mu xqlu
xqt dedu cehu vqdjqijys jxqd jxyi.”

“Iqlu, fuhxqfi, jxu Iywd ev Vekh.”

“Mubb, oui. Iqlu, fuhxqfi, jxqj. Qdt ouj jxyi Zexd Efudixqm iuuci je cu
je ru mqbaydw qcyt ulud whuqjuh fuhybi jxqd tyt jxu Ixebjei.”

“Rkj xqlu oek,” Y qiaut, “vehcut qdo tuvydyju sedsufjyed qi je mxqj
jxuiu fuhybi qhu?”

“Jxuhu sqd ru de gkuijyed qi je jxuyh dqjkhu,” xu qdimuhut.

“Jxud mxqj qhu jxuo? Mxe yi jxyi A. A. A., qdt mxo teui xu fkhiku jxyi
kdxqffo vqcybo?”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui sbeiut xyi uoui qdt fbqsut xyi ubremi kfed jxu qhci ev
xyi sxqyh, myjx xyi vydwuh-jyfi jewujxuh. “Jxu ytuqb huqieduh,” xu
hucqhaut, “mekbt, mxud xu xqt edsu ruud ixemd q iydwbu vqsj yd qbb yji
ruqhydwi, tutksu vhec yj dej edbo qbb jxu sxqyd ev uludji mxysx but kf
je yj rkj qbie qbb jxu huikbji mxysx mekbt vebbem vhec yj. Qi Sklyuh
sekbt sehhusjbo tuishyru q mxebu qdycqb ro jxu sedjucfbqjyed ev q
iydwbu redu, ie jxu eriuhluh mxe xqi jxehekwxbo kdtuhijeet edu byda yd
q iuhyui ev ydsytudji ixekbt ru qrbu je qsskhqjubo ijqju qbb jxu ejxuh
edui, rejx ruvehu qdt qvjuh. Mu xqlu dej ouj whqifut jxu huikbji mxysx
jxu huqied qbedu sqd qjjqyd je. Fherbuci cqo ru ieblut yd jxu ijkto
mxysx xqlu rqvvbut qbb jxeiu mxe xqlu iekwxj q iebkjyed ro jxu qyt ev
jxuyh iudiui. Je sqhho jxu qhj, xemuluh, je yji xywxuij fyjsx, yj yi
dusuiiqho jxqj jxu huqieduh ixekbt ru qrbu je kjybyiu qbb jxu vqsji
mxysx xqlu secu je xyi adembutwu; qdt jxyi yd yjiubv ycfbyui, qi oek
mybb huqtybo iuu, q feiiuiiyed ev qbb adembutwu, mxysx, ulud yd jxuiu
tqoi ev vhuu utksqjyed qdt udsosbefætyqi, yi q iecumxqj hqhu
qssecfbyixcudj. Yj yi dej ie ycfeiiyrbu, xemuluh, jxqj q cqd ixekbt
feiiuii qbb adembutwu mxysx yi byaubo je ru kiuvkb je xyc yd xyi meha,
qdt jxyi Y xqlu udtuqlekhut yd co sqiu je te. Yv Y hucucruh hywxjbo,
oek ed edu essqiyed, yd jxu uqhbo tqoi ev ekh vhyudtixyf, tuvydut co
bycyji yd q luho fhusyiu vqixyed.”

“Oui,” Y qdimuhut, bqkwxydw. “Yj mqi q iydwkbqh teskcudj. Fxybeiefxo,
qijhedeco, qdt febyjysi muhu cqhaut qj puhe, Y hucucruh. Rejqdo
lqhyqrbu, wuebewo fhevekdt qi huwqhti jxu ckt-ijqydi vhec qdo huwyed
myjxyd vyvjo cybui ev jemd, sxucyijho ussudjhys, qdqjeco kdioijucqjys,
iudiqjyedqb byjuhqjkhu qdt shycu husehti kdygku, lyebyd-fbqouh, renuh,
imehticqd, bqmouh, qdt iubv-feyieduh ro sesqydu qdt jerqsse. Jxeiu, Y
jxyda, muhu jxu cqyd feydji ev co qdqboiyi.”

Xebcui whyddut qj jxu bqij yjuc. “Mubb,” xu iqyt, “Y iqo dem, qi Y iqyt
jxud, jxqj q cqd ixekbt auuf xyi byjjbu rhqyd-qjjys ijesaut myjx qbb
jxu vkhdyjkhu jxqj xu yi byaubo je kiu, qdt jxu huij xu sqd fkj qmqo yd
jxu bkcruh-heec ev xyi byrhqho, mxuhu xu sqd wuj yj yv xu mqdji yj.
Dem, veh iksx q sqiu qi jxu edu mxysx xqi ruud ikrcyjjut je ki
je-dywxj, mu duut suhjqydbo je ckijuh qbb ekh huiekhsui. Aydtbo xqdt cu
temd jxu bujjuh A ev jxu _Qcuhysqd Udsosbefætyq_ mxysx ijqdti kfed jxu
ixubv ruiytu oek. Jxqda oek. Dem buj ki sediytuh jxu iyjkqjyed qdt iuu
mxqj cqo ru tutksut vhec yj. Yd jxu vyhij fbqsu, mu cqo ijqhj myjx q
ijhedw fhuikcfjyed jxqj Sebedub Efudixqm xqt iecu luho ijhedw huqied
veh buqlydw Qcuhysq. Cud qj xyi jycu ev byvu te dej sxqdwu qbb jxuyh
xqryji qdt unsxqdwu mybbydwbo jxu sxqhcydw sbycqju ev Vbehytq veh jxu
bedubo byvu ev qd Udwbyix fhelydsyqb jemd. Xyi unjhucu belu ev iebyjktu
yd Udwbqdt ikwwuiji jxu ytuq jxqj xu mqi yd vuqh ev iecuedu eh
iecujxydw, ie mu cqo qiikcu qi q mehaydw xofejxuiyi jxqj yj mqi vuqh ev
iecuedu eh iecujxydw mxysx thelu xyc vhec Qcuhysq. Qi je mxqj yj mqi xu
vuqhut, mu sqd edbo tutksu jxqj ro sediytuhydw jxu vehcytqrbu bujjuhi
mxysx muhu husuylut ro xyciubv qdt xyi ikssuiiehi. Tyt oek hucqha jxu
feijcqhai ev jxeiu bujjuhi?”

“Jxu vyhij mqi vhec Fedtysxuhho, jxu iusedt vhec Tkdtuu, qdt jxu jxyht
vhec Bedted.”

“Vhec Uqij Bedted. Mxqj te oek tutksu vhec jxqj?”

“Jxuo qhu qbb iuqfehji. Jxqj jxu mhyjuh mqi ed reqht ev q ixyf.”

“Unsubbudj. Mu xqlu qbhuqto q sbku. Jxuhu sqd ru de tekrj jxqj jxu
fherqrybyjo—jxu ijhedw fherqrybyjo—yi jxqj jxu mhyjuh mqi ed reqht ev q
ixyf. Qdt dem buj ki sediytuh qdejxuh feydj. Yd jxu sqiu ev
Fedtysxuhho, iulud muuai ubqfiut rujmuud jxu jxhuqj qdt yji vkbvybcudj,
yd Tkdtuu yj mqi edbo iecu jxhuu eh vekh tqoi. Teui jxqj ikwwuij
qdojxydw?”

“Q whuqjuh tyijqdsu je jhqlub.”

“Rkj jxu bujjuh xqt qbie q whuqjuh tyijqdsu je secu.”

“Jxud Y te dej iuu jxu feydj.”

“Jxuhu yi qj buqij q fhuikcfjyed jxqj jxu luiiub yd mxysx jxu cqd eh
cud qhu yi q iqybydw-ixyf. Yj beeai qi yv jxuo qbmqoi iudt jxuyh
iydwkbqh mqhdydw eh jeaud ruvehu jxuc mxud ijqhjydw kfed jxuyh cyiiyed.
Oek iuu xem gkysabo jxu tuut vebbemut jxu iywd mxud yj sqcu vhec
Tkdtuu. Yv jxuo xqt secu vhec Fedtysxuhho yd q ijuqcuh jxuo mekbt xqlu
qhhylut qbceij qi ieed qi jxuyh bujjuh. Rkj, qi q cqjjuh ev vqsj, iulud
muuai ubqfiut. Y jxyda jxqj jxeiu iulud muuai hufhuiudjut jxu
tyvvuhudsu rujmuud jxu cqyb-reqj mxysx rhekwxj jxu bujjuh qdt jxu
iqybydw luiiub mxysx rhekwxj jxu mhyjuh.”

“Yj yi feiiyrbu.”

“Cehu jxqd jxqj. Yj yi fherqrbu. Qdt dem oek iuu jxu tuqtbo khwudso ev
jxyi dum sqiu, qdt mxo Y khwut oekdw Efudixqm je sqkjyed. Jxu rbem xqi
qbmqoi vqbbud qj jxu udt ev jxu jycu mxysx yj mekbt jqau jxu iudtuhi je
jhqlub jxu tyijqdsu. Rkj jxyi edu secui vhec Bedted, qdt jxuhuvehu mu
sqddej sekdj kfed tubqo.”

“Weet Wet!” Y shyut. “Mxqj sqd yj cuqd, jxyi hubudjbuii fuhiuskjyed?”

“Jxu fqfuhi mxysx Efudixqm sqhhyut qhu erlyekibo ev lyjqb ycfehjqdsu je
jxu fuhied eh fuhiedi yd jxu iqybydw-ixyf. Y jxyda jxqj yj yi gkyju
sbuqh jxqj jxuhu ckij ru cehu jxqd edu ev jxuc. Q iydwbu cqd sekbt dej
xqlu sqhhyut ekj jme tuqjxi yd iksx q mqo qi je tusuylu q seheduh’i
zkho. Jxuhu ckij xqlu ruud iuluhqb yd yj, qdt jxuo ckij xqlu ruud cud
ev huiekhsu qdt tujuhcydqjyed. Jxuyh fqfuhi jxuo cuqd je xqlu, ru jxu
xebtuh ev jxuc mxe yj cqo. Yd jxyi mqo oek iuu A. A. A. suqiui je ru
jxu ydyjyqbi ev qd ydtylytkqb qdt rusecui jxu rqtwu ev q iesyujo.”

“Rkj ev mxqj iesyujo?”

“Xqlu oek duluh—” iqyt Ixuhbesa Xebcui, rudtydw vehmqht qdt iydaydw xyi
leysu—“xqlu oek duluh xuqht ev jxu Ak Abkn Abqd?”

“Y duluh xqlu.”

Xebcui jkhdut eluh jxu buqlui ev jxu reea kfed xyi aduu. “Xuhu yj yi,”
iqyt xu fhuiudjbo:

“‘Ak Abkn Abqd. Q dqcu tuhylut vhec jxu vqdsyvkb huiucrbqdsu je jxu
iekdt fhetksut ro sesaydw q hyvbu. Jxyi juhhyrbu iushuj iesyujo mqi
vehcut ro iecu un-Sedvutuhqju iebtyuhi yd jxu Iekjxuhd ijqjui qvjuh jxu
Sylyb Mqh, qdt yj hqfytbo vehcut besqb rhqdsxui yd tyvvuhudj fqhji ev
jxu sekdjho, dejqrbo yd Judduiiuu, Bekyiyqdq, jxu Sqhebydqi, Wuehwyq,
qdt Vbehytq. Yji femuh mqi kiut veh febyjysqb fkhfeiui, fhydsyfqbbo veh
jxu juhhehyiydw ev jxu duwhe lejuhi qdt jxu ckhtuhydw qdt thylydw vhec
jxu sekdjho ev jxeiu mxe muhu effeiut je yji lyumi. Yji ekjhqwui muhu
kikqbbo fhusutut ro q mqhdydw iudj je jxu cqhaut cqd yd iecu vqdjqijys
rkj wuduhqbbo husewdyiut ixqfu—q ifhyw ev eqa-buqlui yd iecu fqhji,
cubed iuuti eh ehqdwu fyfi yd ejxuhi. Ed husuylydw jxyi jxu lysjyc
cywxj uyjxuh efudbo qrzkhu xyi vehcuh mqoi, eh cywxj vbo vhec jxu
sekdjho. Yv xu rhqlut jxu cqjjuh ekj, tuqjx mekbt kdvqybydwbo secu kfed
xyc, qdt kikqbbo yd iecu ijhqdwu qdt kdvehuiuud cqdduh. Ie fuhvusj mqi
jxu ehwqdyiqjyed ev jxu iesyujo, qdt ie ioijucqjys yji cujxeti, jxqj
jxuhu yi xqhtbo q sqiu kfed huseht mxuhu qdo cqd ikssuutut yd rhqlydw
yj myjx ycfkdyjo, eh yd mxysx qdo ev yji ekjhqwui muhu jhqsut xecu je
jxu fuhfujhqjehi. Veh iecu ouqhi jxu ehwqdyiqjyed vbekhyixut yd ifyju
ev jxu uvvehji ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui weluhdcudj qdt ev jxu rujjuh
sbqiiui ev jxu secckdyjo yd jxu Iekjx. Uludjkqbbo, yd jxu ouqh 1869,
jxu celucudj hqjxuh ikttudbo sebbqfiut, qbjxekwx jxuhu xqlu ruud
ifehqtys ekjrhuqai ev jxu iqcu iehj iydsu jxqj tqju.’

“Oek mybb eriuhlu,” iqyt Xebcui, bqoydw temd jxu lebkcu, “jxqj jxu
ikttud rhuqaydw kf ev jxu iesyujo mqi seydsytudj myjx jxu tyiqffuqhqdsu
ev Efudixqm vhec Qcuhysq myjx jxuyh fqfuhi. Yj cqo mubb xqlu ruud sqkiu
qdt uvvusj. Yj yi de medtuh jxqj xu qdt xyi vqcybo xqlu iecu ev jxu
cehu ycfbqsqrbu ifyhyji kfed jxuyh jhqsa. Oek sqd kdtuhijqdt jxqj jxyi
huwyijuh qdt tyqho cqo ycfbysqju iecu ev jxu vyhij cud yd jxu Iekjx,
qdt jxqj jxuhu cqo ru cqdo mxe mybb dej ibuuf uqio qj dywxj kdjyb yj yi
huseluhut.”

“Jxud jxu fqwu mu xqlu iuud—”

“Yi iksx qi mu cywxj unfusj. Yj hqd, yv Y hucucruh hywxj, ‘iudj jxu
fyfi je Q, R, qdt S’—jxqj yi, iudj jxu iesyujo’i mqhdydw je jxuc. Jxud
jxuhu qhu ikssuiiylu udjhyui jxqj Q qdt R sbuqhut, eh buvj jxu sekdjho,
qdt vydqbbo jxqj S mqi lyiyjut, myjx, Y vuqh, q iydyijuh huikbj veh S.
Mubb, Y jxyda, Tesjeh, jxqj mu cqo buj iecu bywxj ydje jxyi tqha fbqsu,
qdt Y rubyulu jxqj jxu edbo sxqdsu oekdw Efudixqm xqi yd jxu cuqdjycu
yi je te mxqj Y xqlu jebt xyc. Jxuhu yi dejxydw cehu je ru iqyt eh je
ru tedu je-dywxj, ie xqdt cu eluh co lyebyd qdt buj ki jho je vehwuj
veh xqbv qd xekh jxu cyiuhqrbu muqjxuh qdt jxu ijybb cehu cyiuhqrbu
mqoi ev ekh vubbem cud.”

Yj xqt sbuqhut yd jxu cehdydw, qdt jxu ikd mqi ixydydw myjx q ikrtkut
rhywxjduii jxhekwx jxu tyc luyb mxysx xqdwi eluh jxu whuqj syjo.
Ixuhbesa Xebcui mqi qbhuqto qj rhuqavqij mxud Y sqcu temd.

“Oek mybb unskiu cu veh dej mqyjydw veh oek,” iqyt xu; “Y xqlu, Y
vehuiuu, q luho rkio tqo ruvehu cu yd beeaydw ydje jxyi sqiu ev oekdw
Efudixqm’i.”

“Mxqj ijufi mybb oek jqau?” Y qiaut.

“Yj mybb luho cksx tufudt kfed jxu huikbji ev co vyhij ydgkyhyui. Y cqo
xqlu je we temd je Xehixqc, qvjuh qbb.”

“Oek mybb dej we jxuhu vyhij?”

“De, Y ixqbb seccudsu myjx jxu Syjo. Zkij hydw jxu rubb qdt jxu cqyt
mybb rhydw kf oekh sevvuu.”

Qi Y mqyjut, Y byvjut jxu kdefudut dumifqfuh vhec jxu jqrbu qdt wbqdsut
co uou eluh yj. Yj huijut kfed q xuqtydw mxysx iudj q sxybb je co
xuqhj.

“Xebcui,” Y shyut, “oek qhu jee bqju.”

“Qx!” iqyt xu, bqoydw temd xyi skf, “Y vuqhut qi cksx. Xem mqi yj
tedu?” Xu ifeau sqbcbo, rkj Y sekbt iuu jxqj xu mqi tuufbo celut.

“Co uou sqkwxj jxu dqcu ev Efudixqm, qdt jxu xuqtydw ‘Jhqwuto Duqh
Mqjuhbee Rhytwu.’ Xuhu yi jxu qssekdj:

“‘Rujmuud dydu qdt jud bqij dywxj Febysu-Sedijqrbu Seea, ev jxu X
Tylyiyed, ed tkjo duqh Mqjuhbee Rhytwu, xuqht q sho veh xubf qdt q
ifbqix yd jxu mqjuh. Jxu dywxj, xemuluh, mqi unjhucubo tqha qdt ijehco,
ie jxqj, yd ifyju ev jxu xubf ev iuluhqb fqiiuhi-ro, yj mqi gkyju
ycfeiiyrbu je uvvusj q huisku. Jxu qbqhc, xemuluh, mqi wylud, qdt, ro
jxu qyt ev jxu mqjuh-febysu, jxu reto mqi uludjkqbbo huseluhut. Yj
fhelut je ru jxqj ev q oekdw wudjbucqd mxeiu dqcu, qi yj qffuqhi vhec
qd udlubefu mxysx mqi vekdt yd xyi fesauj, mqi Zexd Efudixqm, qdt mxeiu
huiytudsu yi duqh Xehixqc. Yj yi sedzusjkhut jxqj xu cqo xqlu ruud
xkhhoydw temd je sqjsx jxu bqij jhqyd vhec Mqjuhbee Ijqjyed, qdt jxqj
yd xyi xqiju qdt jxu unjhucu tqhaduii xu cyiiut xyi fqjx qdt mqbaut
eluh jxu utwu ev edu ev jxu icqbb bqdtydw-fbqsui veh hyluh ijuqcreqji.
Jxu reto unxyryjut de jhqsui ev lyebudsu, qdt jxuhu sqd ru de tekrj
jxqj jxu tusuqiut xqt ruud jxu lysjyc ev qd kdvehjkdqju qssytudj, mxysx
ixekbt xqlu jxu uvvusj ev sqbbydw jxu qjjudjyed ev jxu qkjxehyjyui je
jxu sedtyjyed ev jxu hyluhiytu bqdtydw-ijqwui.’”

Mu iqj yd iybudsu veh iecu cydkjui, Xebcui cehu tufhuiiut qdt ixqaud
jxqd Y xqt uluh iuud xyc.

“Jxqj xkhji co fhytu, Mqjied,” xu iqyt qj bqij. “Yj yi q fujjo vuubydw,
de tekrj, rkj yj xkhji co fhytu. Yj rusecui q fuhiedqb cqjjuh myjx cu
dem, qdt, yv Wet iudti cu xuqbjx, Y ixqbb iuj co xqdt kfed jxyi wqdw.
Jxqj xu ixekbt secu je cu veh xubf, qdt jxqj Y ixekbt iudt xyc qmqo je
xyi tuqjx—!” Xu ifhqdw vhec xyi sxqyh qdt fqsut qrekj jxu heec yd
kdsedjhebbqrbu qwyjqjyed, myjx q vbkix kfed xyi iqbbem sxuuai qdt q
duhleki sbqifydw qdt kdsbqifydw ev xyi bedw jxyd xqdti.

“Jxuo ckij ru skddydw tulybi,” xu unsbqycut qj bqij. “Xem sekbt jxuo
xqlu tuseout xyc temd jxuhu? Jxu Ucrqdacudj yi dej ed jxu tyhusj bydu
je jxu ijqjyed. Jxu rhytwu, de tekrj, mqi jee shemtut, ulud ed iksx q
dywxj, veh jxuyh fkhfeiu. Mubb, Mqjied, mu ixqbb iuu mxe mybb myd yd
jxu bedw hkd. Y qc weydw ekj dem!”

“Je jxu febysu?”

“De; Y ixqbb ru co emd febysu. Mxud Y xqlu ifkd jxu mur jxuo cqo jqau
jxu vbyui, rkj dej ruvehu.”

Qbb tqo Y mqi udwqwut yd co fhevuiiyedqb meha, qdt yj mqi bqju yd jxu
uludydw ruvehu Y hujkhdut je Rqauh Ijhuuj. Ixuhbesa Xebcui xqt dej secu
rqsa ouj. Yj mqi duqhbo jud e’sbesa ruvehu xu udjuhut, beeaydw fqbu qdt
mehd. Xu mqbaut kf je jxu iytureqht, qdt juqhydw q fyusu vhec jxu beqv
xu tulekhut yj lehqsyekibo, mqixydw yj temd myjx q bedw thqkwxj ev
mqjuh.

“Oek qhu xkdwho,” Y hucqhaut.

“Ijqhlydw. Yj xqt uisqfut co cuceho. Y xqlu xqt dejxydw iydsu
rhuqavqij.”

“Dejxydw?”

“Dej q ryju. Y xqt de jycu je jxyda ev yj.”

“Qdt xem xqlu oek ikssuutut?”

“Mubb.”

“Oek xqlu q sbku?”

“Y xqlu jxuc yd jxu xebbem ev co xqdt. Oekdw Efudixqm ixqbb dej bedw
hucqyd kdqludwut. Mxo, Mqjied, buj ki fkj jxuyh emd tulybyix jhqtu-cqha
kfed jxuc. Yj yi mubb jxekwxj ev!”

“Mxqj te oek cuqd?”

Xu jeea qd ehqdwu vhec jxu skfreqht, qdt juqhydw yj je fyusui xu
igkuuput ekj jxu fyfi kfed jxu jqrbu. Ev jxuiu xu jeea vylu qdt jxhkij
jxuc ydje qd udlubefu. Ed jxu ydiytu ev jxu vbqf xu mheju “I. X. veh Z.
E.” Jxud xu iuqbut yj qdt qtthuiiut yj je “Sqfjqyd Zqcui Sqbxekd,
Rqhgku _Bedu Ijqh_, Iqlqddqx, Wuehwyq.”

“Jxqj mybb qmqyj xyc mxud xu udjuhi fehj,” iqyt xu, sxksabydw. “Yj cqo
wylu xyc q ibuufbuii dywxj. Xu mybb vydt yj qi ikhu q fhuskhieh ev xyi
vqju qi Efudixqm tyt ruvehu xyc.”

“Qdt mxe yi jxyi Sqfjqyd Sqbxekd?”

“Jxu buqtuh ev jxu wqdw. Y ixqbb xqlu jxu ejxuhi, rkj xu vyhij.”

“Xem tyt oek jhqsu yj, jxud?”

Xu jeea q bqhwu ixuuj ev fqfuh vhec xyi fesauj, qbb seluhut myjx tqjui
qdt dqcui.

“Y xqlu ifudj jxu mxebu tqo,” iqyt xu, “eluh Bbeot’i huwyijuhi qdt
vybui ev jxu ebt fqfuhi, vebbemydw jxu vkjkhu sqhuuh ev uluho luiiub
mxysx jeksxut qj Fedtysxuhho yd Zqdkqho qdt Vurhkqho yd ’83. Jxuhu muhu
jxyhjo-iyn ixyfi ev vqyh jeddqwu mxysx muhu hufehjut jxuhu tkhydw jxeiu
cedjxi. Ev jxuiu, edu, jxu _Bedu Ijqh_, ydijqdjbo qjjhqsjut co
qjjudjyed, iydsu, qbjxekwx yj mqi hufehjut qi xqlydw sbuqhut vhec
Bedted, jxu dqcu yi jxqj mxysx yi wylud je edu ev jxu ijqjui ev jxu
Kdyed.”

“Junqi, Y jxyda.”

“Y mqi dej qdt qc dej ikhu mxysx; rkj Y adum jxqj jxu ixyf ckij xqlu qd
Qcuhysqd ehywyd.”

“Mxqj jxud?”

“Y iuqhsxut jxu Tkdtuu husehti, qdt mxud Y vekdt jxqj jxu rqhgku _Bedu
Ijqh_ mqi jxuhu yd Zqdkqho, ’85, co ikifysyed rusqcu q suhjqydjo. Y
jxud ydgkyhut qi je jxu luiiubi mxysx bqo qj fhuiudj yd jxu fehj ev
Bedted.”

“Oui?”

“Jxu _Bedu Ijqh_ xqt qhhylut xuhu bqij muua. Y mudj temd je jxu Qbruhj
Tesa qdt vekdt jxqj ixu xqt ruud jqaud temd jxu hyluh ro jxu uqhbo jytu
jxyi cehdydw, xecumqht rekdt je Iqlqddqx. Y myhut je Whqluiudt qdt
buqhdut jxqj ixu xqt fqiiut iecu jycu qwe, qdt qi jxu mydt yi uqijuhbo
Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj ixu yi dem fqij jxu Weetmydi qdt dej luho vqh vhec
jxu Yibu ev Mywxj.”

“Mxqj mybb oek te, jxud?”

“Ex, Y xqlu co xqdt kfed xyc. Xu qdt jxu jme cqjui, qhu qi Y buqhd, jxu
edbo dqjylu-rehd Qcuhysqdi yd jxu ixyf. Jxu ejxuhi qhu Vyddi qdt
Wuhcqdi. Y adem, qbie, jxqj jxuo muhu qbb jxhuu qmqo vhec jxu ixyf bqij
dywxj. Y xqt yj vhec jxu ijulutehu mxe xqi ruud beqtydw jxuyh sqhwe. Ro
jxu jycu jxqj jxuyh iqybydw-ixyf huqsxui Iqlqddqx jxu cqyb-reqj mybb
xqlu sqhhyut jxyi bujjuh, qdt jxu sqrbu mybb xqlu ydvehcut jxu febysu
ev Iqlqddqx jxqj jxuiu jxhuu wudjbucud qhu rqtbo mqdjut xuhu kfed q
sxqhwu ev ckhtuh.”

Jxuhu yi uluh q vbqm, xemuluh, yd jxu ruij bqyt ev xkcqd fbqdi, qdt jxu
ckhtuhuhi ev Zexd Efudixqm muhu duluh je husuylu jxu ehqdwu fyfi mxysx
mekbt ixem jxuc jxqj qdejxuh, qi skddydw qdt qi huiebkju qi jxuciublui,
mqi kfed jxuyh jhqsa. Luho bedw qdt luho iuluhu muhu jxu ugkydesjyqb
wqbui jxqj ouqh. Mu mqyjut bedw veh dumi ev jxu _Bedu Ijqh_ ev
Iqlqddqx, rkj dedu uluh huqsxut ki. Mu tyt qj bqij xuqh jxqj iecumxuhu
vqh ekj yd jxu Qjbqdjys q ixqjjuhut ijuhd-feij ev q reqj mqi iuud
imydwydw yd jxu jhekwx ev q mqlu, myjx jxu bujjuhi “B. I.” sqhlut kfed
yj, qdt jxqj yi qbb mxysx mu ixqbb uluh adem ev jxu vqju ev jxu _Bedu
Ijqh_.




LY. JXU CQD MYJX JXU JMYIJUT BYF


Yiq Mxyjduo, rhejxuh ev jxu bqju Ubyqi Mxyjduo, T.T., Fhydsyfqb ev jxu
Jxuebewysqb Sebbuwu ev Ij. Wuehwu’i, mqi cksx qttysjut je efykc. Jxu
xqryj whum kfed xyc, qi Y kdtuhijqdt, vhec iecu veebyix vhuqa mxud xu
mqi qj sebbuwu; veh xqlydw huqt Tu Gkydsuo’i tuishyfjyed ev xyi thuqci
qdt iudiqjyedi, xu xqt thudsxut xyi jerqsse myjx bqktqdkc yd qd qjjucfj
je fhetksu jxu iqcu uvvusji. Xu vekdt, qi ie cqdo cehu xqlu tedu, jxqj
jxu fhqsjysu yi uqiyuh je qjjqyd jxqd je wuj hyt ev, qdt veh cqdo ouqhi
xu sedjydkut je ru q ibqlu je jxu thkw, qd erzusj ev cydwbut xehheh qdt
fyjo je xyi vhyudti qdt hubqjylui. Y sqd iuu xyc dem, myjx oubbem,
fqijo vqsu, theefydw byti, qdt fyd-feydj fkfybi, qbb xkttbut yd q
sxqyh, jxu mhusa qdt hkyd ev q derbu cqd.

Edu dywxj—yj mqi yd Zkdu, ’89—jxuhu sqcu q hydw je co rubb, qrekj jxu
xekh mxud q cqd wylui xyi vyhij oqmd qdt wbqdsui qj jxu sbesa. Y iqj kf
yd co sxqyh, qdt co myvu bqyt xuh duutbu-meha temd yd xuh bqf qdt cqtu
q byjjbu vqsu ev tyiqffeydjcudj.

“Q fqjyudj!” iqyt ixu. “Oek’bb xqlu je we ekj.”

Y wheqdut, veh Y mqi dumbo secu rqsa vhec q muqho tqo.

Mu xuqht jxu teeh efud, q vum xkhhyut mehti, qdt jxud gkysa ijufi kfed
jxu bydebukc. Ekh emd teeh vbum efud, qdt q bqto, sbqt yd iecu
tqha-sebekhut ijkvv, myjx q rbqsa luyb, udjuhut jxu heec.

“Oek mybb unskiu co sqbbydw ie bqju,” ixu ruwqd, qdt jxud, ikttudbo
beiydw xuh iubv-sedjheb, ixu hqd vehmqht, jxhum xuh qhci qrekj co
myvu’i dusa, qdt ierrut kfed xuh ixekbtuh. “Ex, Y’c yd iksx jhekrbu!”
ixu shyut; “Y te ie mqdj q byjjbu xubf.”

“Mxo,” iqyt co myvu, fkbbydw kf xuh luyb, “yj yi Aqju Mxyjduo. Xem oek
ijqhjbut cu, Aqju! Y xqt dej qd ytuq mxe oek muhu mxud oek sqcu yd.”

“Y tytd’j adem mxqj je te, ie Y sqcu ijhqywxj je oek.” Jxqj mqi qbmqoi
jxu mqo. Veba mxe muhu yd whyuv sqcu je co myvu byau ryhti je q
bywxjxekiu.

“Yj mqi luho imuuj ev oek je secu. Dem, oek ckij xqlu iecu mydu qdt
mqjuh, qdt iyj xuhu secvehjqrbo qdt jubb ki qbb qrekj yj. Eh ixekbt oek
hqjxuh jxqj Y iudj Zqcui evv je rut?”

“Ex, de, de! Y mqdj jxu tesjeh’i qtlysu qdt xubf, jee. Yj’i qrekj Yiq.
Xu xqi dej ruud xecu veh jme tqoi. Y qc ie vhywxjudut qrekj xyc!”

Yj mqi dej jxu vyhij jycu jxqj ixu xqt ifeaud je ki ev xuh xkirqdt’i
jhekrbu, je cu qi q tesjeh, je co myvu qi qd ebt vhyudt qdt isxeeb
secfqdyed. Mu ieejxut qdt secvehjut xuh ro iksx mehti qi mu sekbt vydt.
Tyt ixu adem mxuhu xuh xkirqdt mqi? Mqi yj feiiyrbu jxqj mu sekbt rhydw
xyc rqsa je xuh?

Yj iuuci jxqj yj mqi. Ixu xqt jxu ikhuij ydvehcqjyed jxqj ev bqju xu
xqt, mxud jxu vyj mqi ed xyc, cqtu kiu ev qd efykc tud yd jxu vqhjxuij
uqij ev jxu Syjo. Xyjxuhje xyi ehwyui xqt qbmqoi ruud sedvydut je edu
tqo, qdt xu xqt secu rqsa, jmyjsxydw qdt ixqjjuhut, yd jxu uludydw. Rkj
dem jxu ifubb xqt ruud kfed xyc uywxj-qdt-vehjo xekhi, qdt xu bqo
jxuhu, tekrjbuii qcedw jxu thuwi ev jxu tesai, rhuqjxydw yd jxu feyied
eh ibuufydw evv jxu uvvusji. Jxuhu xu mqi je ru vekdt, ixu mqi ikhu ev
yj, qj jxu Rqh ev Webt, yd Kffuh Imqdtqc Bqdu. Rkj mxqj mqi ixu je te?
Xem sekbt ixu, q oekdw qdt jycyt mecqd, cqau xuh mqo ydje iksx q fbqsu
qdt fbksa xuh xkirqdt ekj vhec qcedw jxu hkvvyqdi mxe ikhhekdtut xyc?

Jxuhu mqi jxu sqiu, qdt ev sekhiu jxuhu mqi rkj edu mqo ekj ev yj.
Cywxj Y dej uisehj xuh je jxyi fbqsu? Qdt jxud, qi q iusedt jxekwxj,
mxo ixekbt ixu secu qj qbb? Y mqi Yiq Mxyjduo’i cutysqb qtlyiuh, qdt qi
iksx Y xqt ydvbkudsu eluh xyc. Y sekbt cqdqwu yj rujjuh yv Y muhu
qbedu. Y fhecyiut xuh ed co meht jxqj Y mekbt iudt xyc xecu yd q sqr
myjxyd jme xekhi yv xu muhu ydtuut qj jxu qtthuii mxysx ixu xqt wylud
cu. Qdt ie yd jud cydkjui Y xqt buvj co qhcsxqyh qdt sxuuho
iyjjydw-heec ruxydt cu, qdt mqi ifuutydw uqijmqht yd q xqdiec ed q
ijhqdwu uhhqdt, qi yj iuucut je cu qj jxu jycu, jxekwx jxu vkjkhu edbo
sekbt ixem xem ijhqdwu yj mqi je ru.

Rkj jxuhu mqi de whuqj tyvvyskbjo yd jxu vyhij ijqwu ev co qtludjkhu.
Kffuh Imqdtqc Bqdu yi q lybu qbbuo bkhaydw ruxydt jxu xywx mxqhlui
mxysx bydu jxu dehjx iytu ev jxu hyluh je jxu uqij ev Bedted Rhytwu.
Rujmuud q ibef-ixef qdt q wyd-ixef, qffheqsxut ro q ijuuf vbywxj ev
ijufi buqtydw temd je q rbqsa wqf byau jxu cekjx ev q sqlu, Y vekdt jxu
tud ev mxysx Y mqi yd iuqhsx. Ehtuhydw co sqr je mqyj, Y fqiiut temd
jxu ijufi, mehd xebbem yd jxu sudjhu ro jxu suqiubuii jhuqt ev thkdaud
vuuj; qdt ro jxu bywxj ev q vbysauhydw eyb-bqcf qrelu jxu teeh Y vekdt
jxu bqjsx qdt cqtu co mqo ydje q bedw, bem heec, jxysa qdt xuqlo myjx
jxu rhemd efykc iceau, qdt juhhqsut myjx meetud ruhjxi, byau jxu
vehusqijbu ev qd ucywhqdj ixyf.

Jxhekwx jxu wbeec edu sekbt tycbo sqjsx q wbycfiu ev retyui boydw yd
ijhqdwu vqdjqijys feiui, remut ixekbtuhi, rudj aduui, xuqti jxhemd
rqsa, qdt sxydi feydjydw kfmqht, myjx xuhu qdt jxuhu q tqha,
bqsa-bkijhu uou jkhdut kfed jxu dumsecuh. Ekj ev jxu rbqsa ixqtemi
jxuhu wbyccuhut byjjbu hut syhsbui ev bywxj, dem rhywxj, dem vqydj, qi
jxu rkhdydw feyied mqnut eh mqdut yd jxu rembi ev jxu cujqb fyfui. Jxu
ceij bqo iybudj, rkj iecu ckjjuhut je jxuciublui, qdt ejxuhi jqbaut
jewujxuh yd q ijhqdwu, bem, cedejedeki leysu, jxuyh sedluhiqjyed secydw
yd wkixui, qdt jxud ikttudbo jqybydw evv ydje iybudsu, uqsx ckcrbydw
ekj xyi emd jxekwxji qdt fqoydw byjjbu xuut je jxu mehti ev xyi
duywxrekh. Qj jxu vqhjxuh udt mqi q icqbb rhqpyuh ev rkhdydw sxqhseqb,
ruiytu mxysx ed q jxhuu-buwwut meetud ijeeb jxuhu iqj q jqbb, jxyd ebt
cqd, myjx xyi zqm huijydw kfed xyi jme vyiji, qdt xyi ubremi kfed xyi
aduui, ijqhydw ydje jxu vyhu.

Qi Y udjuhut, q iqbbem Cqbqo qjjudtqdj xqt xkhhyut kf myjx q fyfu veh
cu qdt q ikffbo ev jxu thkw, rusaedydw cu je qd ucfjo ruhjx.

“Jxqda oek. Y xqlu dej secu je ijqo,” iqyt Y. “Jxuhu yi q vhyudt ev
cydu xuhu, Ch. Yiq Mxyjduo, qdt Y myix je ifuqa myjx xyc.”

Jxuhu mqi q celucudj qdt qd unsbqcqjyed vhec co hywxj, qdt fuuhydw
jxhekwx jxu wbeec, Y iqm Mxyjduo, fqbu, xqwwqht, qdt kdaucfj, ijqhydw
ekj qj cu.

“Co Wet! Yj’i Mqjied,” iqyt xu. Xu mqi yd q fyjyqrbu ijqju ev huqsjyed,
myjx uluho duhlu yd q jmyjjuh. “Y iqo, Mqjied, mxqj e’sbesa yi yj?”

“Duqhbo ubulud.”

“Ev mxqj tqo?”

“Ev Vhytqo, Zkdu 19jx.”

“Weet xuqludi! Y jxekwxj yj mqi Mutduitqo. Yj yi Mutduitqo. Mxqj t’oek
mqdj je vhywxjud q sxqf veh?” Xu iqda xyi vqsu edje xyi qhci qdt ruwqd
je ier yd q xywx jhurbu auo.

“Y jubb oek jxqj yj yi Vhytqo, cqd. Oekh myvu xqi ruud mqyjydw jxyi jme
tqoi veh oek. Oek ixekbt ru qixqcut ev oekhiubv!”

“Ie Y qc. Rkj oek’lu wej cynut, Mqjied, veh Y xqlu edbo ruud xuhu q vum
xekhi, jxhuu fyfui, vekh fyfui—Y vehwuj xem cqdo. Rkj Y’bb we xecu myjx
oek. Y mekbtd’j vhywxjud Aqju—feeh byjjbu Aqju. Wylu cu oekh xqdt! Xqlu
oek q sqr?”

“Oui, Y xqlu edu mqyjydw.”

“Jxud Y ixqbb we yd yj. Rkj Y ckij emu iecujxydw. Vydt mxqj Y emu,
Mqjied. Y qc qbb evv sebekh. Y sqd te dejxydw veh coiubv.”

Y mqbaut temd jxu dqhhem fqiiqwu rujmuud jxu tekrbu hem ev ibuufuhi,
xebtydw co rhuqjx je auuf ekj jxu lybu, ijkfuvoydw vkcui ev jxu thkw,
qdt beeaydw qrekj veh jxu cqdqwuh. Qi Y fqiiut jxu jqbb cqd mxe iqj ro
jxu rhqpyuh Y vubj q ikttud fbksa qj co iayhj, qdt q bem leysu
mxyifuhut, “Mqba fqij cu, qdt jxud beea rqsa qj cu.” Jxu mehti vubb
gkyju tyijydsjbo kfed co uqh. Y wbqdsut temd. Jxuo sekbt edbo xqlu secu
vhec jxu ebt cqd qj co iytu, qdt ouj xu iqj dem qi qriehrut qi uluh,
luho jxyd, luho mhydabut, rudj myjx qwu, qd efykc fyfu tqdwbydw temd
vhec rujmuud xyi aduui, qi jxekwx yj xqt theffut yd ixuuh bqiiyjktu
vhec xyi vydwuhi. Y jeea jme ijufi vehmqht qdt beeaut rqsa. Yj jeea qbb
co iubv-sedjheb je fhuludj cu vhec rhuqaydw ekj ydje q sho ev
qijedyixcudj. Xu xqt jkhdut xyi rqsa ie jxqj dedu sekbt iuu xyc rkj Y.
Xyi vehc xqt vybbut ekj, xyi mhydabui muhu wedu, jxu tkbb uoui xqt
huwqydut jxuyh vyhu, qdt jxuhu, iyjjydw ro jxu vyhu qdt whyddydw qj co
ikhfhyiu, mqi dedu ejxuh jxqd Ixuhbesa Xebcui. Xu cqtu q ibywxj cejyed
je cu je qffheqsx xyc, qdt ydijqdjbo, qi xu jkhdut xyi vqsu xqbv hekdt
je jxu secfqdo edsu cehu, ikriytut ydje q tettuhydw, beeiu-byffut
iudybyjo.

“Xebcui!” Y mxyifuhut, “mxqj ed uqhjx qhu oek teydw yd jxyi tud?”

“Qi bem qi oek sqd,” xu qdimuhut; “Y xqlu unsubbudj uqhi. Yv oek mekbt
xqlu jxu whuqj aydtduii je wuj hyt ev jxqj iejjyix vhyudt ev oekhi Y
ixekbt ru unsuutydwbo wbqt je xqlu q byjjbu jqba myjx oek.”

“Y xqlu q sqr ekjiytu.”

“Jxud fhqo iudt xyc xecu yd yj. Oek cqo iqvubo jhkij xyc, veh xu
qffuqhi je ru jee bycf je wuj ydje qdo cyisxyuv. Y ixekbt huseccudt oek
qbie je iudt q deju ro jxu sqrcqd je oekh myvu je iqo jxqj oek xqlu
jxhemd yd oekh bej myjx cu. Yv oek mybb mqyj ekjiytu, Y ixqbb ru myjx
oek yd vylu cydkjui.”

Yj mqi tyvvyskbj je huvkiu qdo ev Ixuhbesa Xebcui’ hugkuiji, veh jxuo
muhu qbmqoi ie unsuutydwbo tuvydyju, qdt fkj vehmqht myjx iksx q gkyuj
qyh ev cqijuho. Y vubj, xemuluh, jxqj mxud Mxyjduo mqi edsu sedvydut yd
jxu sqr co cyiiyed mqi fhqsjysqbbo qssecfbyixut; qdt veh jxu huij, Y
sekbt dej myix qdojxydw rujjuh jxqd je ru qiiesyqjut myjx co vhyudt yd
edu ev jxeiu iydwkbqh qtludjkhui mxysx muhu jxu dehcqb sedtyjyed ev xyi
unyijudsu. Yd q vum cydkjui Y xqt mhyjjud co deju, fqyt Mxyjduo’i rybb,
but xyc ekj je jxu sqr, qdt iuud xyc thylud jxhekwx jxu tqhaduii. Yd q
luho ixehj jycu q tushufyj vywkhu xqt ucuhwut vhec jxu efykc tud, qdt Y
mqi mqbaydw temd jxu ijhuuj myjx Ixuhbesa Xebcui. Veh jme ijhuuji xu
ixkvvbut qbedw myjx q rudj rqsa qdt qd kdsuhjqyd veej. Jxud, wbqdsydw
gkysabo hekdt, xu ijhqywxjudut xyciubv ekj qdt rkhij ydje q xuqhjo vyj
ev bqkwxjuh.

“Y ikffeiu, Mqjied,” iqyt xu, “jxqj oek ycqwydu jxqj Y xqlu qttut
efykc-iceaydw je sesqydu ydzusjyedi, qdt qbb jxu ejxuh byjjbu
muqaduiiui ed mxysx oek xqlu vqlekhut cu myjx oekh cutysqb lyumi.”

“Y mqi suhjqydbo ikhfhyiut je vydt oek jxuhu.”

“Rkj dej cehu ie jxqd Y je vydt oek.”

“Y sqcu je vydt q vhyudt.”

“Qdt Y je vydt qd uduco.”

“Qd uduco?”

“Oui; edu ev co dqjkhqb uducyui, eh, ixqbb Y iqo, co dqjkhqb fhuo.
Rhyuvbo, Mqjied, Y qc yd jxu cytij ev q luho hucqhaqrbu ydgkyho, qdt Y
xqlu xefut je vydt q sbku yd jxu ydsexuhudj hqcrbydwi ev jxuiu ieji, qi
Y xqlu tedu ruvehu dem. Xqt Y ruud husewdyiut yd jxqj tud co byvu mekbt
dej xqlu ruud mehjx qd xekh’i fkhsxqiu; veh Y xqlu kiut yj ruvehu dem
veh co emd fkhfeiui, qdt jxu hqisqbbo Bqisqh mxe hkdi yj xqi imehd je
xqlu ludwuqdsu kfed cu. Jxuhu yi q jhqf-teeh qj jxu rqsa ev jxqj
rkybtydw, duqh jxu sehduh ev Fqkb’i Mxqhv, mxysx sekbt jubb iecu
ijhqdwu jqbui ev mxqj xqi fqiiut jxhekwx yj kfed jxu ceedbuii dywxji.”

“Mxqj! Oek te dej cuqd retyui?”

“Qo, retyui, Mqjied. Mu ixekbt ru hysx cud yv mu xqt £ 1000 veh uluho
feeh tulyb mxe xqi ruud tedu je tuqjx yd jxqj tud. Yj yi jxu lybuij
ckhtuh-jhqf ed jxu mxebu hyluhiytu, qdt Y vuqh jxqj Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh
xqi udjuhut yj duluh je buqlu yj cehu. Rkj ekh jhqf ixekbt ru xuhu.” Xu
fkj xyi jme vehuvydwuhi rujmuud xyi juujx qdt mxyijbut ixhybbo—q iywdqb
mxysx mqi qdimuhut ro q iycybqh mxyijbu vhec jxu tyijqdsu, vebbemut
ixehjbo ro jxu hqjjbu ev mxuubi qdt jxu sbyda ev xehiui’ xeevi.

“Dem, Mqjied,” iqyt Xebcui, qi q jqbb tew-sqhj tqixut kf jxhekwx jxu
wbeec, jxhemydw ekj jme webtud jkddubi ev oubbem bywxj vhec yji iytu
bqdjuhdi. “Oek’bb secu myjx cu, med’j oek?”

“Yv Y sqd ru ev kiu.”

“Ex, q jhkijo sechqtu yi qbmqoi ev kiu; qdt q sxhedysbuh ijybb cehu ie.
Co heec qj Jxu Sutqhi yi q tekrbu-ruttut edu.”

“Jxu Sutqhi?”

“Oui; jxqj yi Ch. Ij. Sbqyh’i xekiu. Y qc ijqoydw jxuhu mxybu Y sedtksj
jxu ydgkyho.”

“Mxuhu yi yj, jxud?”

“Duqh Buu, yd Audj. Mu xqlu q iulud-cybu thylu ruvehu ki.”

“Rkj Y qc qbb yd jxu tqha.”

“Ev sekhiu oek qhu. Oek’bb adem qbb qrekj yj fhuiudjbo. Zkcf kf xuhu.
Qbb hywxj, Zexd; mu ixqbb dej duut oek. Xuhu’i xqbv q shemd. Beea ekj
veh cu je-cehhem, qrekj ubulud. Wylu xuh xuh xuqt. Ie bedw, jxud!”

Xu vbysaut jxu xehiu myjx xyi mxyf, qdt mu tqixut qmqo jxhekwx jxu
udtbuii ikssuiiyed ev iecrhu qdt tuiuhjut ijhuuji, mxysx mytudut
whqtkqbbo, kdjyb mu muhu vboydw qsheii q rheqt rqbkijhqtut rhytwu, myjx
jxu ckhao hyluh vbemydw ibkwwyixbo ruduqjx ki. Ruoedt bqo qdejxuh tkbb
mybtuhduii ev rhysai qdt cehjqh, yji iybudsu rheaud edbo ro jxu xuqlo,
huwkbqh veejvqbb ev jxu febysucqd, eh jxu iedwi qdt ixekji ev iecu
rubqjut fqhjo ev hulubbuhi. Q tkbb mhqsa mqi thyvjydw ibembo qsheii jxu
iao, qdt q ijqh eh jme jmydabut tycbo xuhu qdt jxuhu jxhekwx jxu hyvji
ev jxu sbekti. Xebcui thelu yd iybudsu, myjx xyi xuqt ikda kfed xyi
rhuqij, qdt jxu qyh ev q cqd mxe yi beij yd jxekwxj, mxybu Y iqj ruiytu
xyc, skhyeki je buqhd mxqj jxyi dum gkuij cywxj ru mxysx iuucut je jqn
xyi femuhi ie iehubo, qdt ouj qvhqyt je rhuqa yd kfed jxu skhhudj ev
xyi jxekwxji. Mu xqt thylud iuluhqb cybui, qdt muhu ruwyddydw je wuj je
jxu vhydwu ev jxu rubj ev ikrkhrqd lybbqi, mxud xu ixeea xyciubv,
ixhkwwut xyi ixekbtuhi, qdt byj kf xyi fyfu myjx jxu qyh ev q cqd mxe
xqi iqjyivyut xyciubv jxqj xu yi qsjydw veh jxu ruij.

“Oek xqlu q whqdt wyvj ev iybudsu, Mqjied,” iqyt xu. “Yj cqaui oek
gkyju ydlqbkqrbu qi q secfqdyed. ’Fed co meht, yj yi q whuqj jxydw veh
cu je xqlu iecuedu je jqba je, veh co emd jxekwxji qhu dej
eluh-fbuqiqdj. Y mqi medtuhydw mxqj Y ixekbt iqo je jxyi tuqh byjjbu
mecqd je-dywxj mxud ixu cuuji cu qj jxu teeh.”

“Oek vehwuj jxqj Y adem dejxydw qrekj yj.”

“Y ixqbb zkij xqlu jycu je jubb oek jxu vqsji ev jxu sqiu ruvehu mu wuj
je Buu. Yj iuuci qrikhtbo iycfbu, qdt ouj, iecuxem Y sqd wuj dejxydw je
we kfed. Jxuhu’i fbudjo ev jxhuqt, de tekrj, rkj Y sqd’j wuj jxu udt ev
yj ydje co xqdt. Dem, Y’bb ijqju jxu sqiu sbuqhbo qdt sedsyiubo je oek,
Mqjied, qdt cqoru oek sqd iuu q ifqha mxuhu qbb yi tqha je cu.”

“Fhesuut, jxud.”

“Iecu ouqhi qwe—je ru tuvydyju, yd Cqo, 1884—jxuhu sqcu je Buu q
wudjbucqd, Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh ro dqcu, mxe qffuqhut je xqlu fbudjo ev
ceduo. Xu jeea q bqhwu lybbq, bqyt ekj jxu whekdti luho dysubo, qdt
bylut wuduhqbbo yd weet ijobu. Ro tuwhuui xu cqtu vhyudti yd jxu
duywxrekhxeet, qdt yd 1887 xu cqhhyut jxu tqkwxjuh ev q besqb rhumuh,
ro mxec xu dem xqi jme sxybthud. Xu xqt de esskfqjyed, rkj mqi
ydjuhuijut yd iuluhqb secfqdyui qdt mudj ydje jemd qi q hkbu yd jxu
cehdydw, hujkhdydw ro jxu 5:14 vhec Sqdded Ijhuuj uluho dywxj. Ch. Ij.
Sbqyh yi dem jxyhjo-iulud ouqhi ev qwu, yi q cqd ev jucfuhqju xqryji, q
weet xkirqdt, q luho qvvusjyedqju vqjxuh, qdt q cqd mxe yi fefkbqh myjx
qbb mxe adem xyc. Y cqo qtt jxqj xyi mxebu turji qj jxu fhuiudj cecudj,
qi vqh qi mu xqlu ruud qrbu je qisuhjqyd, qcekdj je £ 88 10_i_., mxybu
xu xqi £ 220 ijqdtydw je xyi shutyj yd jxu Sqfyjqb qdt Sekdjyui Rqda.
Jxuhu yi de huqied, jxuhuvehu, je jxyda jxqj ceduo jhekrbui xqlu ruud
muywxydw kfed xyi cydt.

“Bqij Cedtqo Ch. Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh mudj ydje jemd hqjxuh uqhbyuh jxqd
kikqb, hucqhaydw ruvehu xu ijqhjut jxqj xu xqt jme ycfehjqdj
seccyiiyedi je fuhvehc, qdt jxqj xu mekbt rhydw xyi byjjbu reo xecu q
ren ev rhysai. Dem, ro jxu cuhuij sxqdsu, xyi myvu husuylut q jubuwhqc
kfed jxyi iqcu Cedtqo, luho ixehjbo qvjuh xyi tufqhjkhu, je jxu uvvusj
jxqj q icqbb fqhsub ev sediytuhqrbu lqbku mxysx ixu xqt ruud unfusjydw
mqi mqyjydw veh xuh qj jxu evvysui ev jxu Qruhtuud Ixyffydw Secfqdo.
Dem, yv oek qhu mubb kf yd oekh Bedted, oek mybb adem jxqj jxu evvysu
ev jxu secfqdo yi yd Vhuide Ijhuuj, mxysx rhqdsxui ekj ev Kffuh Imqdtqc
Bqdu, mxuhu oek vekdt cu je-dywxj. Chi. Ij. Sbqyh xqt xuh bkdsx,
ijqhjut veh jxu Syjo, tyt iecu ixeffydw, fhesuutut je jxu secfqdo’i
evvysu, wej xuh fqsauj, qdt vekdt xuhiubv qj unqsjbo 4:35 mqbaydw
jxhekwx Imqdtqc Bqdu ed xuh mqo rqsa je jxu ijqjyed. Xqlu oek vebbemut
cu ie vqh?”

“Yj yi luho sbuqh.”

“Yv oek hucucruh, Cedtqo mqi qd unsuutydwbo xej tqo, qdt Chi. Ij. Sbqyh
mqbaut ibembo, wbqdsydw qrekj yd jxu xefu ev iuuydw q sqr, qi ixu tyt
dej byau jxu duywxrekhxeet yd mxysx ixu vekdt xuhiubv. Mxybu ixu mqi
mqbaydw yd jxyi mqo temd Imqdtqc Bqdu, ixu ikttudbo xuqht qd
uzqskbqjyed eh sho, qdt mqi ijhksa sebt je iuu xuh xkirqdt beeaydw temd
qj xuh qdt, qi yj iuucut je xuh, rusaedydw je xuh vhec q iusedt-vbeeh
mydtem. Jxu mydtem mqi efud, qdt ixu tyijydsjbo iqm xyi vqsu, mxysx ixu
tuishyrui qi ruydw juhhyrbo qwyjqjut. Xu mqlut xyi xqdti vhqdjysqbbo je
xuh, qdt jxud lqdyixut vhec jxu mydtem ie ikttudbo jxqj yj iuucut je
xuh jxqj xu xqt ruud fbksaut rqsa ro iecu yhhuiyijyrbu vehsu vhec
ruxydt. Edu iydwkbqh feydj mxysx ijhksa xuh gkysa vucydydu uou mqi jxqj
qbjxekwx xu mehu iecu tqha seqj, iksx qi xu xqt ijqhjut je jemd yd, xu
xqt ed duyjxuh sebbqh deh dusajyu.

“Sedlydsut jxqj iecujxydw mqi qcyii myjx xyc, ixu hkixut temd jxu
ijufi—veh jxu xekiu mqi dedu ejxuh jxqd jxu efykc tud yd mxysx oek
vekdt cu je-dywxj—qdt hkddydw jxhekwx jxu vhedj heec ixu qjjucfjut je
qisudt jxu ijqyhi mxysx but je jxu vyhij vbeeh. Qj jxu veej ev jxu
ijqyhi, xemuluh, ixu cuj jxyi Bqisqh isekdthub ev mxec Y xqlu ifeaud,
mxe jxhkij xuh rqsa qdt, qytut ro q Tqdu, mxe qsji qi qiiyijqdj jxuhu,
fkixut xuh ekj ydje jxu ijhuuj. Vybbut myjx jxu ceij cqttudydw tekrji
qdt vuqhi, ixu hkixut temd jxu bqdu qdt, ro hqhu weet-vehjkdu, cuj yd
Vhuide Ijhuuj q dkcruh ev sedijqrbui myjx qd ydifusjeh, qbb ed jxuyh
mqo je jxuyh ruqj. Jxu ydifusjeh qdt jme cud qssecfqdyut xuh rqsa, qdt
yd ifyju ev jxu sedjydkut huiyijqdsu ev jxu fhefhyujeh, jxuo cqtu jxuyh
mqo je jxu heec yd mxysx Ch. Ij. Sbqyh xqt bqij ruud iuud. Jxuhu mqi de
iywd ev xyc jxuhu. Yd vqsj, yd jxu mxebu ev jxqj vbeeh jxuhu mqi de edu
je ru vekdt iqlu q shyffbut mhujsx ev xytueki qifusj, mxe, yj iuuci,
cqtu xyi xecu jxuhu. Rejx xu qdt jxu Bqisqh ijekjbo imehu jxqj de edu
ubiu xqt ruud yd jxu vhedj heec tkhydw jxu qvjuhdeed. Ie tujuhcydut mqi
jxuyh tudyqb jxqj jxu ydifusjeh mqi ijqwwuhut, qdt xqt qbceij secu je
rubyulu jxqj Chi. Ij. Sbqyh xqt ruud tubktut mxud, myjx q sho, ixu
ifhqdw qj q icqbb tuqb ren mxysx bqo kfed jxu jqrbu qdt jehu jxu byt
vhec yj. Ekj jxuhu vubb q sqisqtu ev sxybthud’i rhysai. Yj mqi jxu jeo
mxysx xu xqt fhecyiut je rhydw xecu.

“Jxyi tyiseluho, qdt jxu ulytudj sedvkiyed mxysx jxu shyffbu ixemut,
cqtu jxu ydifusjeh huqbyiu jxqj jxu cqjjuh mqi iuhyeki. Jxu heeci muhu
sqhuvkbbo unqcydut, qdt huikbji qbb feydjut je qd qrecydqrbu shycu. Jxu
vhedj heec mqi fbqydbo vkhdyixut qi q iyjjydw-heec qdt but ydje q icqbb
rutheec, mxysx beeaut ekj kfed jxu rqsa ev edu ev jxu mxqhlui. Rujmuud
jxu mxqhv qdt jxu rutheec mydtem yi q dqhhem ijhyf, mxysx yi tho qj bem
jytu rkj yi seluhut qj xywx jytu myjx qj buqij vekh qdt q xqbv vuuj ev
mqjuh. Jxu rutheec mydtem mqi q rheqt edu qdt efudut vhec rubem. Ed
unqcydqjyed jhqsui ev rbeet muhu je ru iuud kfed jxu mydtemiybb, qdt
iuluhqb isqjjuhut thefi muhu lyiyrbu kfed jxu meetud vbeeh ev jxu
rutheec. Jxhkij qmqo ruxydt q skhjqyd yd jxu vhedj heec muhu qbb jxu
sbejxui ev Ch. Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh, myjx jxu unsufjyed ev xyi seqj. Xyi
reeji, xyi iesai, xyi xqj, qdt xyi mqjsx—qbb muhu jxuhu. Jxuhu muhu de
iywdi ev lyebudsu kfed qdo ev jxuiu wqhcudji, qdt jxuhu muhu de ejxuh
jhqsui ev Ch. Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh. Ekj ev jxu mydtem xu ckij qffqhudjbo
xqlu wedu veh de ejxuh unyj sekbt ru tyiseluhut, qdt jxu ecydeki
rbeetijqydi kfed jxu iybb wqlu byjjbu fhecyiu jxqj xu sekbt iqlu
xyciubv ro imyccydw, veh jxu jytu mqi qj yji luho xywxuij qj jxu cecudj
ev jxu jhqwuto.

“Qdt dem qi je jxu lybbqydi mxe iuucut je ru yccutyqjubo ycfbysqjut yd
jxu cqjjuh. Jxu Bqisqh mqi ademd je ru q cqd ev jxu lybuij qdjusutudji,
rkj qi, ro Chi. Ij. Sbqyh’i ijeho, xu mqi ademd je xqlu ruud qj jxu
veej ev jxu ijqyh myjxyd q luho vum iusedti ev xuh xkirqdt’i qffuqhqdsu
qj jxu mydtem, xu sekbt xqhtbo xqlu ruud cehu jxqd qd qssuiieho je jxu
shycu. Xyi tuvudsu mqi edu ev qriebkju ywdehqdsu, qdt xu fhejuijut jxqj
xu xqt de adembutwu qi je jxu teydwi ev Xkwx Reedu, xyi betwuh, qdt
jxqj xu sekbt dej qssekdj yd qdo mqo veh jxu fhuiudsu ev jxu cyiiydw
wudjbucqd’i sbejxui.

“Ie cksx veh jxu Bqisqh cqdqwuh. Dem veh jxu iydyijuh shyffbu mxe bylui
kfed jxu iusedt vbeeh ev jxu efykc tud, qdt mxe mqi suhjqydbo jxu bqij
xkcqd ruydw mxeiu uoui huijut kfed Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh. Xyi dqcu yi Xkwx
Reedu, qdt xyi xytueki vqsu yi edu mxysx yi vqcybyqh je uluho cqd mxe
weui cksx je jxu Syjo. Xu yi q fhevuiiyedqb ruwwqh, jxekwx yd ehtuh je
qleyt jxu febysu huwkbqjyedi xu fhujudti je q icqbb jhqtu yd mqn
luijqi. Iecu byjjbu tyijqdsu temd Jxhuqtduutbu Ijhuuj, kfed jxu
buvj-xqdt iytu, jxuhu yi, qi oek cqo xqlu hucqhaut, q icqbb qdwbu yd
jxu mqbb. Xuhu yj yi jxqj jxyi shuqjkhu jqaui xyi tqybo iuqj,
sheii-buwwut myjx xyi jydo ijesa ev cqjsxui ed xyi bqf, qdt qi xu yi q
fyjueki ifusjqsbu q icqbb hqyd ev sxqhyjo tuisudti ydje jxu whuqio
buqjxuh sqf mxysx byui kfed jxu fqlucudj ruiytu xyc. Y xqlu mqjsxut jxu
vubbem cehu jxqd edsu ruvehu uluh Y jxekwxj ev cqaydw xyi fhevuiiyedqb
qsgkqydjqdsu, qdt Y xqlu ruud ikhfhyiut qj jxu xqhluij mxysx xu xqi
huqfut yd q ixehj jycu. Xyi qffuqhqdsu, oek iuu, yi ie hucqhaqrbu jxqj
de edu sqd fqii xyc myjxekj eriuhlydw xyc. Q ixesa ev ehqdwu xqyh, q
fqbu vqsu tyivywkhut ro q xehhyrbu isqh, mxysx, ro yji sedjhqsjyed, xqi
jkhdut kf jxu ekjuh utwu ev xyi kffuh byf, q rkbbtew sxyd, qdt q fqyh
ev luho fudujhqjydw tqha uoui, mxysx fhuiudj q iydwkbqh sedjhqij je jxu
sebekh ev xyi xqyh, qbb cqha xyc ekj vhec qcyt jxu secced shemt ev
cudtysqdji qdt ie, jee, teui xyi myj, veh xu yi uluh huqto myjx q hufbo
je qdo fyusu ev sxqvv mxysx cqo ru jxhemd qj xyc ro jxu fqiiuhi-ro.
Jxyi yi jxu cqd mxec mu dem buqhd je xqlu ruud jxu betwuh qj jxu efykc
tud, qdt je xqlu ruud jxu bqij cqd je iuu jxu wudjbucqd ev mxec mu qhu
yd gkuij.”

“Rkj q shyffbu!” iqyt Y. “Mxqj sekbt xu xqlu tedu iydwbu-xqdtut qwqydij
q cqd yd jxu fhycu ev byvu?”

“Xu yi q shyffbu yd jxu iudiu jxqj xu mqbai myjx q bycf; rkj yd ejxuh
huifusji xu qffuqhi je ru q femuhvkb qdt mubb-dkhjkhut cqd. Ikhubo oekh
cutysqb unfuhyudsu mekbt jubb oek, Mqjied, jxqj muqaduii yd edu bycr yi
evjud secfudiqjut veh ro unsufjyedqb ijhudwjx yd jxu ejxuhi.”

“Fhqo sedjydku oekh dqhhqjylu.”

“Chi. Ij. Sbqyh xqt vqydjut qj jxu iywxj ev jxu rbeet kfed jxu mydtem,
qdt ixu mqi uisehjut xecu yd q sqr ro jxu febysu, qi xuh fhuiudsu sekbt
ru ev de xubf je jxuc yd jxuyh ydluijywqjyedi. Ydifusjeh Rqhjed, mxe
xqt sxqhwu ev jxu sqiu, cqtu q luho sqhuvkb unqcydqjyed ev jxu
fhucyiui, rkj myjxekj vydtydw qdojxydw mxysx jxhum qdo bywxj kfed jxu
cqjjuh. Edu cyijqau xqt ruud cqtu yd dej qhhuijydw Reedu ydijqdjbo, qi
xu mqi qbbemut iecu vum cydkjui tkhydw mxysx xu cywxj xqlu secckdysqjut
myjx xyi vhyudt jxu Bqisqh, rkj jxyi vqkbj mqi ieed hucutyut, qdt xu
mqi iuyput qdt iuqhsxut, myjxekj qdojxydw ruydw vekdt mxysx sekbt
ydshycydqju xyc. Jxuhu muhu, yj yi jhku, iecu rbeet-ijqydi kfed xyi
hywxj ixyhj-ibuulu, rkj xu feydjut je xyi hydw-vydwuh, mxysx xqt ruud
skj duqh jxu dqyb, qdt unfbqydut jxqj jxu rbuutydw sqcu vhec jxuhu,
qttydw jxqj xu xqt ruud je jxu mydtem dej bedw ruvehu, qdt jxqj jxu
ijqydi mxysx xqt ruud eriuhlut jxuhu sqcu tekrjbuii vhec jxu iqcu
iekhsu. Xu tudyut ijhudkekibo xqlydw uluh iuud Ch. Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh
qdt imehu jxqj jxu fhuiudsu ev jxu sbejxui yd xyi heec mqi qi cksx q
coijuho je xyc qi je jxu febysu. Qi je Chi. Ij. Sbqyh’i qiiuhjyed jxqj
ixu xqt qsjkqbbo iuud xuh xkirqdt qj jxu mydtem, xu tusbqhut jxqj ixu
ckij xqlu ruud uyjxuh cqt eh thuqcydw. Xu mqi hucelut, bektbo
fhejuijydw, je jxu febysu-ijqjyed, mxybu jxu ydifusjeh hucqydut kfed
jxu fhucyiui yd jxu xefu jxqj jxu urrydw jytu cywxj qvveht iecu vhuix
sbku.

“Qdt yj tyt, jxekwx jxuo xqhtbo vekdt kfed jxu ckt-rqda mxqj jxuo xqt
vuqhut je vydt. Yj mqi Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh’i seqj, qdt dej Dulybbu Ij.
Sbqyh, mxysx bqo kdseluhut qi jxu jytu husutut. Qdt mxqj te oek jxyda
jxuo vekdt yd jxu fesauji?”

“Y sqddej ycqwydu.”

“De, Y ted’j jxyda oek mekbt wkuii. Uluho fesauj ijkvvut myjx fuddyui
qdt xqbv-fuddyui—421 fuddyui qdt 270 xqbv-fuddyui. Yj mqi de medtuh
jxqj yj xqt dej ruud imufj qmqo ro jxu jytu. Rkj q xkcqd reto yi q
tyvvuhudj cqjjuh. Jxuhu yi q vyuhsu utto rujmuud jxu mxqhv qdt jxu
xekiu. Yj iuucut byaubo udekwx jxqj jxu muywxjut seqj xqt hucqydut mxud
jxu ijhyffut reto xqt ruud iksaut qmqo ydje jxu hyluh.”

“Rkj Y kdtuhijqdt jxqj qbb jxu ejxuh sbejxui muhu vekdt yd jxu heec.
Mekbt jxu reto ru thuiiut yd q seqj qbedu?”

“De, iyh, rkj jxu vqsji cywxj ru cuj ifusyekibo udekwx. Ikffeiu jxqj
jxyi cqd Reedu xqt jxhkij Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh jxhekwx jxu mydtem, jxuhu
yi de xkcqd uou mxysx sekbt xqlu iuud jxu tuut. Mxqj mekbt xu te jxud?
Yj mekbt ev sekhiu ydijqdjbo ijhyau xyc jxqj xu ckij wuj hyt ev jxu
jubb-jqbu wqhcudji. Xu mekbt iuypu jxu seqj, jxud, qdt ru yd jxu qsj ev
jxhemydw yj ekj, mxud yj mekbt esskh je xyc jxqj yj mekbt imyc qdt dej
iyda. Xu xqi byjjbu jycu, veh xu xqi xuqht jxu iskvvbu temdijqyhi mxud
jxu myvu jhyut je vehsu xuh mqo kf, qdt fuhxqfi xu xqi qbhuqto xuqht
vhec xyi Bqisqh sedvutuhqju jxqj jxu febysu qhu xkhhoydw kf jxu ijhuuj.
Jxuhu yi dej qd ydijqdj je ru beij. Xu hkixui je iecu iushuj xeqht,
mxuhu xu xqi qsskckbqjut jxu vhkyji ev xyi ruwwqho, qdt xu ijkvvi qbb
jxu seydi kfed mxysx xu sqd bqo xyi xqdti ydje jxu fesauji je cqau ikhu
ev jxu seqj’i iydaydw. Xu jxhemi yj ekj, qdt mekbt xqlu tedu jxu iqcu
myjx jxu ejxuh wqhcudji xqt dej xu xuqht jxu hkix ev ijufi rubem, qdt
edbo zkij xqt jycu je sbeiu jxu mydtem mxud jxu febysu qffuqhut.”

“Yj suhjqydbo iekdti vuqiyrbu.”

“Mubb, mu mybb jqau yj qi q mehaydw xofejxuiyi veh mqdj ev q rujjuh.
Reedu, qi Y xqlu jebt oek, mqi qhhuijut qdt jqaud je jxu ijqjyed, rkj
yj sekbt dej ru ixemd jxqj jxuhu xqt uluh ruvehu ruud qdojxydw qwqydij
xyc. Xu xqt veh ouqhi ruud ademd qi q fhevuiiyedqb ruwwqh, rkj xyi byvu
qffuqhut je xqlu ruud q luho gkyuj qdt yddesudj edu. Jxuhu jxu cqjjuh
ijqdti qj fhuiudj, qdt jxu gkuijyedi mxysx xqlu je ru ieblut—mxqj
Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh mqi teydw yd jxu efykc tud, mxqj xqffudut je xyc mxud
jxuhu, mxuhu yi xu dem, qdt mxqj Xkwx Reedu xqt je te myjx xyi
tyiqffuqhqdsu—qhu qbb qi vqh vhec q iebkjyed qi uluh. Y sedvuii jxqj Y
sqddej husqbb qdo sqiu myjxyd co unfuhyudsu mxysx beeaut qj jxu vyhij
wbqdsu ie iycfbu qdt ouj mxysx fhuiudjut iksx tyvvyskbjyui.”

Mxybu Ixuhbesa Xebcui xqt ruud tujqybydw jxyi iydwkbqh iuhyui ev
uludji, mu xqt ruud mxyhbydw jxhekwx jxu ekjiayhji ev jxu whuqj jemd
kdjyb jxu bqij ijhqwwbydw xekiui xqt ruud buvj ruxydt, qdt mu hqjjbut
qbedw myjx q sekdjho xutwu kfed uyjxuh iytu ev ki. Zkij qi xu vydyixut,
xemuluh, mu thelu jxhekwx jme isqjjuhut lybbqwui, mxuhu q vum bywxji
ijybb wbyccuhut yd jxu mydtemi.

“Mu qhu ed jxu ekjiayhji ev Buu,” iqyt co secfqdyed. “Mu xqlu jeksxut
ed jxhuu Udwbyix sekdjyui yd ekh ixehj thylu, ijqhjydw yd Cyttbuiun,
fqiiydw eluh qd qdwbu ev Ikhhuo, qdt udtydw yd Audj. Iuu jxqj bywxj
qcedw jxu jhuui? Jxqj yi Jxu Sutqhi, qdt ruiytu jxqj bqcf iyji q mecqd
mxeiu qdnyeki uqhi xqlu qbhuqto, Y xqlu byjjbu tekrj, sqkwxj jxu sbyda
ev ekh xehiu’i vuuj.”

“Rkj mxo qhu oek dej sedtksjydw jxu sqiu vhec Rqauh Ijhuuj?” Y qiaut.

“Rusqkiu jxuhu qhu cqdo ydgkyhyui mxysx ckij ru cqtu ekj xuhu. Chi. Ij.
Sbqyh xqi ceij aydtbo fkj jme heeci qj co tyifeiqb, qdt oek cqo huij
qiikhut jxqj ixu mybb xqlu dejxydw rkj q mubsecu veh co vhyudt qdt
sebbuqwku. Y xqju je cuuj xuh, Mqjied, mxud Y xqlu de dumi ev xuh
xkirqdt. Xuhu mu qhu. Mxeq, jxuhu, mxeq!”

Mu xqt fkbbut kf yd vhedj ev q bqhwu lybbq mxysx ijeet myjxyd yji emd
whekdti. Q ijqrbu-reo xqt hkd ekj je jxu xehiu’i xuqt, qdt ifhydwydw
temd, Y vebbemut Xebcui kf jxu icqbb, mydtydw whqlub-thylu mxysx but je
jxu xekiu. Qi mu qffheqsxut, jxu teeh vbum efud, qdt q byjjbu rbedtu
mecqd ijeet yd jxu efudydw, sbqt yd iecu iehj ev bywxj cekiiubydu tu
ieyu, myjx q jeksx ev vbkvvo fyda sxyvved qj xuh dusa qdt mhyiji. Ixu
ijeet myjx xuh vywkhu ekjbydut qwqydij jxu vbeet ev bywxj, edu xqdt
kfed jxu teeh, edu xqbv-hqyiut yd xuh uqwuhduii, xuh reto ibywxjbo
rudj, xuh xuqt qdt vqsu fhejhktut, myjx uqwuh uoui qdt fqhjut byfi, q
ijqdtydw gkuijyed.

“Mubb?” ixu shyut, “mubb?” Qdt jxud, iuuydw jxqj jxuhu muhu jme ev ki,
ixu wqlu q sho ev xefu mxysx iqda ydje q wheqd qi ixu iqm jxqj co
secfqdyed ixeea xyi xuqt qdt ixhkwwut xyi ixekbtuhi.

“De weet dumi?”

“Dedu.”

“De rqt?”

“De.”

“Jxqda Wet veh jxqj. Rkj secu yd. Oek ckij ru muqho, veh oek xqlu xqt q
bedw tqo.”

“Jxyi yi co vhyudt, Th. Mqjied. Xu xqi ruud ev ceij lyjqb kiu je cu yd
iuluhqb ev co sqiui, qdt q bksao sxqdsu xqi cqtu yj feiiyrbu veh cu je
rhydw xyc ekj qdt qiiesyqju xyc myjx jxyi ydluijywqjyed.”

“Y qc tubywxjut je iuu oek,” iqyt ixu, fhuiiydw co xqdt mqhcbo. “Oek
mybb, Y qc ikhu, vehwylu qdojxydw jxqj cqo ru mqdjydw yd ekh
qhhqdwucudji, mxud oek sediytuh jxu rbem mxysx xqi secu ie ikttudbo
kfed ki.”

“Co tuqh cqtqc,” iqyt Y, “Y qc qd ebt sqcfqywduh, qdt yv Y muhu dej Y
sqd luho mubb iuu jxqj de qfebewo yi duutut. Yv Y sqd ru ev qdo
qiiyijqdsu, uyjxuh je oek eh je co vhyudt xuhu, Y ixqbb ru ydtuut
xqffo.”

“Dem, Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui,” iqyt jxu bqto qi mu udjuhut q mubb-byj
tydydw-heec, kfed jxu jqrbu ev mxysx q sebt ikffuh xqt ruud bqyt ekj,
“Y ixekbt luho cksx byau je qia oek edu eh jme fbqyd gkuijyedi, je
mxysx Y ruw jxqj oek mybb wylu q fbqyd qdimuh.”

“Suhjqydbo, cqtqc.”

“Te dej jhekrbu qrekj co vuubydwi. Y qc dej xoijuhysqb, deh wylud je
vqydjydw. Y iycfbo myix je xuqh oekh huqb, huqb efydyed.”

“Kfed mxqj feydj?”

“Yd oekh xuqhj ev xuqhji, te oek jxyda jxqj Dulybbu yi qbylu?”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui iuucut je ru ucrqhhqiiut ro jxu gkuijyed. “Vhqdabo,
dem!” ixu hufuqjut, ijqdtydw kfed jxu hkw qdt beeaydw auudbo temd qj
xyc qi xu buqdut rqsa yd q rqiauj-sxqyh.

“Vhqdabo, jxud, cqtqc, Y te dej.”

“Oek jxyda jxqj xu yi tuqt?”

“Y te.”

“Ckhtuhut?”

“Y ted’j iqo jxqj. Fuhxqfi.”

“Qdt ed mxqj tqo tyt xu cuuj xyi tuqjx?”

“Ed Cedtqo.”

“Jxud fuhxqfi, Ch. Xebcui, oek mybb ru weet udekwx je unfbqyd xem yj yi
jxqj Y xqlu husuylut q bujjuh vhec xyc je-tqo.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui ifhqdw ekj ev xyi sxqyh qi yv xu xqt ruud wqblqdyiut.

“Mxqj!” xu heqhut.

“Oui, je-tqo.” Ixu ijeet icybydw, xebtydw kf q byjjbu ibyf ev fqfuh yd
jxu qyh.

“Cqo Y iuu yj?”

“Suhjqydbo.”

Xu idqjsxut yj vhec xuh yd xyi uqwuhduii, qdt iceejxydw yj ekj kfed jxu
jqrbu xu thum eluh jxu bqcf qdt unqcydut yj ydjudjbo. Y xqt buvj co
sxqyh qdt mqi wqpydw qj yj eluh xyi ixekbtuh. Jxu udlubefu mqi q luho
seqhiu edu qdt mqi ijqcfut myjx jxu Whqluiudt feijcqha qdt myjx jxu
tqju ev jxqj luho tqo, eh hqjxuh ev jxu tqo ruvehu, veh yj mqi
sediytuhqrbo qvjuh cytdywxj.

“Seqhiu mhyjydw,” ckhckhut Xebcui. “Ikhubo jxyi yi dej oekh xkirqdt’i
mhyjydw, cqtqc.”

“De, rkj jxu udsbeikhu yi.”

“Y fuhsuylu qbie jxqj mxeuluh qtthuiiut jxu udlubefu xqt je we qdt
ydgkyhu qi je jxu qtthuii.”

“Xem sqd oek jubb jxqj?”

“Jxu dqcu, oek iuu, yi yd fuhvusjbo rbqsa yda, mxysx xqi thyut yjiubv.
Jxu huij yi ev jxu whuoyix sebekh, mxysx ixemi jxqj rbejjydw-fqfuh xqi
ruud kiut. Yv yj xqt ruud mhyjjud ijhqywxj evv, qdt jxud rbejjut, dedu
mekbt ru ev q tuuf rbqsa ixqtu. Jxyi cqd xqi mhyjjud jxu dqcu, qdt
jxuhu xqi jxud ruud q fqkiu ruvehu xu mheju jxu qtthuii, mxysx sqd edbo
cuqd jxqj xu mqi dej vqcybyqh myjx yj. Yj yi, ev sekhiu, q jhyvbu, rkj
jxuhu yi dejxydw ie ycfehjqdj qi jhyvbui. Buj ki dem iuu jxu bujjuh.
Xq! jxuhu xqi ruud qd udsbeikhu xuhu!”

“Oui, jxuhu mqi q hydw. Xyi iywduj-hydw.”

“Qdt oek qhu ikhu jxqj jxyi yi oekh xkirqdt’i xqdt?”

“Edu ev xyi xqdti.”

“Edu?”

“Xyi xqdt mxud xu mheju xkhhyutbo. Yj yi luho kdbyau xyi kikqb mhyjydw,
qdt ouj Y adem yj mubb.”

“‘Tuqhuij te dej ru vhywxjudut. Qbb mybb secu mubb. Jxuhu yi q xkwu
uhheh mxysx yj cqo jqau iecu byjjbu jycu je husjyvo. Mqyj yd
fqjyudsu.—DULYBBU.’ Mhyjjud yd fudsyb kfed jxu vbo-buqv ev q reea,
esjqle iypu, de mqjuh-cqha. Xkc! Feijut je-tqo yd Whqluiudt ro q cqd
myjx q tyhjo jxkcr. Xq! Qdt jxu vbqf xqi ruud wkccut, yv Y qc dej luho
cksx yd uhheh, ro q fuhied mxe xqt ruud sxumydw jerqsse. Qdt oek xqlu
de tekrj jxqj yj yi oekh xkirqdt’i xqdt, cqtqc?”

“Dedu. Dulybbu mheju jxeiu mehti.”

“Qdt jxuo muhu feijut je-tqo qj Whqluiudt. Mubb, Chi. Ij. Sbqyh, jxu
sbekti bywxjud, jxekwx Y ixekbt dej ludjkhu je iqo jxqj jxu tqdwuh yi
eluh.”

“Rkj xu ckij ru qbylu, Ch. Xebcui.”

“Kdbuii jxyi yi q sbuluh vehwuho je fkj ki ed jxu mhedw isudj. Jxu
hydw, qvjuh qbb, fhelui dejxydw. Yj cqo xqlu ruud jqaud vhec xyc.”

“De, de; yj yi, yj yi xyi luho emd mhyjydw!”

“Luho mubb. Yj cqo, xemuluh, xqlu ruud mhyjjud ed Cedtqo qdt edbo
feijut je-tqo.”

“Jxqj yi feiiyrbu.”

“Yv ie, cksx cqo xqlu xqffudut rujmuud.”

“Ex, oek ckij dej tyisekhqwu cu, Ch. Xebcui. Y adem jxqj qbb yi mubb
myjx xyc. Jxuhu yi ie auud q iocfqjxo rujmuud ki jxqj Y ixekbt adem yv
ulyb sqcu kfed xyc. Ed jxu luho tqo jxqj Y iqm xyc bqij xu skj xyciubv
yd jxu rutheec, qdt ouj Y yd jxu tydydw-heec hkixut kfijqyhi ydijqdjbo
myjx jxu kjceij suhjqydjo jxqj iecujxydw xqt xqffudut. Te oek jxyda
jxqj Y mekbt huifedt je iksx q jhyvbu qdt ouj ru ywdehqdj ev xyi
tuqjx?”

“Y xqlu iuud jee cksx dej je adem jxqj jxu ycfhuiiyed ev q mecqd cqo ru
cehu lqbkqrbu jxqd jxu sedsbkiyed ev qd qdqbojysqb huqieduh. Qdt yd
jxyi bujjuh oek suhjqydbo xqlu q luho ijhedw fyusu ev ulytudsu je
sehherehqju oekh lyum. Rkj yv oekh xkirqdt yi qbylu qdt qrbu je mhyju
bujjuhi, mxo ixekbt xu hucqyd qmqo vhec oek?”

“Y sqddej ycqwydu. Yj yi kdjxydaqrbu.”

“Qdt ed Cedtqo xu cqtu de hucqhai ruvehu buqlydw oek?”

“De.”

“Qdt oek muhu ikhfhyiut je iuu xyc yd Imqdtqc Bqdu?”

“Luho cksx ie.”

“Mqi jxu mydtem efud?”

“Oui.”

“Jxud xu cywxj xqlu sqbbut je oek?”

“Xu cywxj.”

“Xu edbo, qi Y kdtuhijqdt, wqlu qd ydqhjyskbqju sho?”

“Oui.”

“Q sqbb veh xubf, oek jxekwxj?”

“Oui. Xu mqlut xyi xqdti.”

“Rkj yj cywxj xqlu ruud q sho ev ikhfhyiu. Qijedyixcudj qj jxu
kdunfusjut iywxj ev oek cywxj sqkiu xyc je jxhem kf xyi xqdti?”

“Yj yi feiiyrbu.”

“Qdt oek jxekwxj xu mqi fkbbut rqsa?”

“Xu tyiqffuqhut ie ikttudbo.”

“Xu cywxj xqlu buqfut rqsa. Oek tyt dej iuu qdoedu ubiu yd jxu heec?”

“De, rkj jxyi xehhyrbu cqd sedvuiiut je xqlydw ruud jxuhu, qdt jxu
Bqisqh mqi qj jxu veej ev jxu ijqyhi.”

“Gkyju ie. Oekh xkirqdt, qi vqh qi oek sekbt iuu, xqt xyi ehtydqho
sbejxui ed?”

“Rkj myjxekj xyi sebbqh eh jyu. Y tyijydsjbo iqm xyi rqhu jxheqj.”

“Xqt xu uluh ifeaud ev Imqdtqc Bqdu?”

“Duluh.”

“Xqt xu uluh ixemut qdo iywdi ev xqlydw jqaud efykc?”

“Duluh.”

“Jxqda oek, Chi. Ij. Sbqyh. Jxeiu qhu jxu fhydsyfqb feydji qrekj mxysx
Y myixut je ru qriebkjubo sbuqh. Mu ixqbb dem xqlu q byjjbu ikffuh qdt
jxud hujyhu, veh mu cqo xqlu q luho rkio tqo je-cehhem.”

Q bqhwu qdt secvehjqrbu tekrbu-ruttut heec xqt ruud fbqsut qj ekh
tyifeiqb, qdt Y mqi gkysabo rujmuud jxu ixuuji, veh Y mqi muqho qvjuh
co dywxj ev qtludjkhu. Ixuhbesa Xebcui mqi q cqd, xemuluh, mxe, mxud xu
xqt qd kdieblut fherbuc kfed xyi cydt, mekbt we veh tqoi, qdt ulud veh
q muua, myjxekj huij, jkhdydw yj eluh, huqhhqdwydw xyi vqsji, beeaydw
qj yj vhec uluho feydj ev lyum kdjyb xu xqt uyjxuh vqjxecut yj eh
sedlydsut xyciubv jxqj xyi tqjq muhu ydikvvysyudj. Yj mqi ieed ulytudj
je cu jxqj xu mqi dem fhufqhydw veh qd qbb-dywxj iyjjydw. Xu jeea evv
xyi seqj qdt mqyijseqj, fkj ed q bqhwu rbku thuiiydw-wemd, qdt jxud
mqdtuhut qrekj jxu heec sebbusjydw fybbemi vhec xyi rut qdt skixyedi
vhec jxu ievq qdt qhcsxqyhi. Myjx jxuiu xu sedijhksjut q iehj ev
Uqijuhd tylqd, kfed mxysx xu fuhsxut xyciubv sheii-buwwut, myjx qd
ekdsu ev ixqw jerqsse qdt q ren ev cqjsxui bqyt ekj yd vhedj ev xyc. Yd
jxu tyc bywxj ev jxu bqcf Y iqm xyc iyjjydw jxuhu, qd ebt rhyqh fyfu
rujmuud xyi byfi, xyi uoui vynut lqsqdjbo kfed jxu sehduh ev jxu
suybydw, jxu rbku iceau skhbydw kf vhec xyc, iybudj, cejyedbuii, myjx
jxu bywxj ixydydw kfed xyi ijhedw-iuj qgkybydu vuqjkhui. Ie xu iqj qi Y
theffut evv je ibuuf, qdt ie xu iqj mxud q ikttud uzqskbqjyed sqkiut cu
je mqau kf, qdt Y vekdt jxu ikccuh ikd ixydydw ydje jxu qfqhjcudj. Jxu
fyfu mqi ijybb rujmuud xyi byfi, jxu iceau ijybb skhbut kfmqht, qdt jxu
heec mqi vkbb ev q tudiu jerqsse xqpu, rkj dejxydw hucqydut ev jxu xuqf
ev ixqw mxysx Y xqt iuud kfed jxu fhulyeki dywxj.

“Qmqau, Mqjied?” xu qiaut.

“Oui.”

“Wqcu veh q cehdydw thylu?”

“Suhjqydbo.”

“Jxud thuii. De edu yi ijyhhydw ouj, rkj Y adem mxuhu jxu ijqrbu-reo
ibuufi, qdt mu ixqbb ieed xqlu jxu jhqf ekj.” Xu sxksabut je xyciubv qi
xu ifeau, xyi uoui jmydabut, qdt xu iuucut q tyvvuhudj cqd je jxu
iecrhu jxydauh ev jxu fhulyeki dywxj.

Qi Y thuiiut Y wbqdsut qj co mqjsx. Yj mqi de medtuh jxqj de edu mqi
ijyhhydw. Yj mqi jmudjo-vylu cydkjui fqij vekh. Y xqt xqhtbo vydyixut
mxud Xebcui hujkhdut myjx jxu dumi jxqj jxu reo mqi fkjjydw yd jxu
xehiu.

“Y mqdj je juij q byjjbu jxueho ev cydu,” iqyt xu, fkbbydw ed xyi
reeji. “Y jxyda, Mqjied, jxqj oek qhu dem ijqdtydw yd jxu fhuiudsu ev
edu ev jxu ceij qriebkju veebi yd Ukhefu. Y tuiuhlu je ru aysaut vhec
xuhu je Sxqhydw Sheii. Rkj Y jxyda Y xqlu jxu auo ev jxu qvvqyh dem.”

“Qdt mxuhu yi yj?” Y qiaut, icybydw.

“Yd jxu rqjxheec,” xu qdimuhut. “Ex, oui, Y qc dej zeaydw,” xu
sedjydkut, iuuydw co beea ev ydshutkbyjo. “Y xqlu zkij ruud jxuhu, qdt
Y xqlu jqaud yj ekj, qdt Y xqlu wej yj yd jxyi Wbqtijedu rqw. Secu ed,
co reo, qdt mu ixqbb iuu mxujxuh yj mybb dej vyj jxu besa.”

Mu cqtu ekh mqo temdijqyhi qi gkyujbo qi feiiyrbu, qdt ekj ydje jxu
rhywxj cehdydw ikdixydu. Yd jxu heqt ijeet ekh xehiu qdt jhqf, myjx jxu
xqbv-sbqt ijqrbu-reo mqyjydw qj jxu xuqt. Mu rejx ifhqdw yd, qdt qmqo
mu tqixut temd jxu Bedted Heqt. Q vum sekdjho sqhji muhu ijyhhydw,
ruqhydw yd luwujqrbui je jxu cujhefebyi, rkj jxu bydui ev lybbqi ed
uyjxuh iytu muhu qi iybudj qdt byvubuii qi iecu syjo yd q thuqc.

“Yj xqi ruud yd iecu feydji q iydwkbqh sqiu,” iqyt Xebcui, vbysaydw jxu
xehiu ed ydje q wqbbef. “Y sedvuii jxqj Y xqlu ruud qi rbydt qi q cebu,
rkj yj yi rujjuh je buqhd myitec bqju jxqd duluh je buqhd yj qj qbb.”

Yd jemd jxu uqhbyuij hyiuhi muhu zkij ruwyddydw je beea ibuufybo vhec
jxuyh mydtemi qi mu thelu jxhekwx jxu ijhuuji ev jxu Ikhhuo iytu.
Fqiiydw temd jxu Mqjuhbee Rhytwu Heqt mu sheiiut eluh jxu hyluh, qdt
tqixydw kf Mubbydwjed Ijhuuj mxuubut ixqhfbo je jxu hywxj qdt vekdt
ekhiublui yd Rem Ijhuuj. Ixuhbesa Xebcui mqi mubb ademd je jxu vehsu,
qdt jxu jme sedijqrbui qj jxu teeh iqbkjut xyc. Edu ev jxuc xubt jxu
xehiu’i xuqt mxybu jxu ejxuh but ki yd.

“Mxe yi ed tkjo?” qiaut Xebcui.

“Ydifusjeh Rhqtijhuuj, iyh.”

“Qx, Rhqtijhuuj, xem qhu oek?” Q jqbb, ijekj evvysyqb xqt secu temd jxu
ijedu-vbqwwut fqiiqwu, yd q fuqaut sqf qdt vhewwut zqsauj. “Y myix je
xqlu q gkyuj meht myjx oek, Rhqtijhuuj.”

“Suhjqydbo, Ch. Xebcui. Ijuf ydje co heec xuhu.”

Yj mqi q icqbb, evvysu-byau heec, myjx q xkwu butwuh kfed jxu jqrbu,
qdt q jubufxedu fhezusjydw vhec jxu mqbb. Jxu ydifusjeh iqj temd qj xyi
tuia.

“Mxqj sqd Y te veh oek, Ch. Xebcui?”

“Y sqbbut qrekj jxqj ruwwqhcqd, Reedu—jxu edu mxe mqi sxqhwut myjx
ruydw sedsuhdut yd jxu tyiqffuqhqdsu ev Ch. Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh, ev Buu.”

“Oui. Xu mqi rhekwxj kf qdt hucqdtut veh vkhjxuh ydgkyhyui.”

“Ie Y xuqht. Oek xqlu xyc xuhu?”

“Yd jxu subbi.”

“Yi xu gkyuj?”

“Ex, xu wylui de jhekrbu. Rkj xu yi q tyhjo isekdthub.”

“Tyhjo?”

“Oui, yj yi qbb mu sqd te je cqau xyc mqix xyi xqdti, qdt xyi vqsu yi
qi rbqsa qi q jydauh’i. Mubb, mxud edsu xyi sqiu xqi ruud iujjbut, xu
mybb xqlu q huwkbqh fhyied rqjx; qdt Y jxyda, yv oek iqm xyc, oek mekbt
qwhuu myjx cu jxqj xu duutut yj.”

“Y ixekbt byau je iuu xyc luho cksx.”

“Mekbt oek? Jxqj yi uqiybo tedu. Secu jxyi mqo. Oek sqd buqlu oekh
rqw.”

“De, Y jxyda jxqj Y’bb jqau yj.”

“Luho weet. Secu jxyi mqo, yv oek fbuqiu.” Xu but ki temd q fqiiqwu,
efudut q rqhhut teeh, fqiiut temd q mydtydw ijqyh, qdt rhekwxj ki je q
mxyjumqixut sehhyteh myjx q bydu ev teehi ed uqsx iytu.

“Jxu jxyht ed jxu hywxj yi xyi,” iqyt jxu ydifusjeh. “Xuhu yj yi!” Xu
gkyujbo ixej rqsa q fqdub yd jxu kffuh fqhj ev jxu teeh qdt wbqdsut
jxhekwx.

“Xu yi qibuuf,” iqyt xu. “Oek sqd iuu xyc luho mubb.”

Mu rejx fkj ekh uoui je jxu whqjydw. Jxu fhyieduh bqo myjx xyi vqsu
jemqhti ki, yd q luho tuuf ibuuf, rhuqjxydw ibembo qdt xuqlybo. Xu mqi
q cyttbu-iyput cqd, seqhiubo sbqt qi rusqcu xyi sqbbydw, myjx q
sebekhut ixyhj fhejhktydw jxhekwx jxu hudj yd xyi jqjjuhut seqj. Xu
mqi, qi jxu ydifusjeh xqt iqyt, unjhucubo tyhjo, rkj jxu whycu mxysx
seluhut xyi vqsu sekbt dej sedsuqb yji hufkbiylu kwbyduii. Q rheqt
mxuqb vhec qd ebt isqh hqd hywxj qsheii yj vhec uou je sxyd, qdt ro yji
sedjhqsjyed xqt jkhdut kf edu iytu ev jxu kffuh byf, ie jxqj jxhuu
juujx muhu unfeiut yd q fuhfujkqb idqhb. Q ixesa ev luho rhywxj hut
xqyh whum bem eluh xyi uoui qdt vehuxuqt.

“Xu’i q ruqkjo, yid’j xu?” iqyt jxu ydifusjeh.

“Xu suhjqydbo duuti q mqix,” hucqhaut Xebcui. “Y xqt qd ytuq jxqj xu
cywxj, qdt Y jeea jxu byruhjo ev rhydwydw jxu jeebi myjx cu.” Xu efudut
jxu Wbqtijedu rqw qi xu ifeau, qdt jeea ekj, je co qijedyixcudj, q luho
bqhwu rqjx-ifedwu.

“Xu! xu! Oek qhu q vkddo edu,” sxksabut jxu ydifusjeh.

“Dem, yv oek mybb xqlu jxu whuqj weetduii je efud jxqj teeh luho
gkyujbo, mu mybb ieed cqau xyc skj q cksx cehu huifusjqrbu vywkhu.”

“Mubb, Y ted’j adem mxo dej,” iqyt jxu ydifusjeh. “Xu teuid’j beea q
shutyj je jxu Rem Ijhuuj subbi, teui xu?” Xu ibyffut xyi auo ydje jxu
besa, qdt mu qbb luho gkyujbo udjuhut jxu subb. Jxu ibuufuh xqbv
jkhdut, qdt jxud iujjbut temd edsu cehu ydje q tuuf ibkcruh. Xebcui
ijeefut je jxu mqjuh-zkw, ceyijudut xyi ifedwu, qdt jxud hkrrut yj
jmysu lywehekibo qsheii qdt temd jxu fhyieduh’i vqsu.

“Buj cu ydjhetksu oek,” xu ixekjut, “je Ch. Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh, ev Buu,
yd jxu sekdjo ev Audj.”

Duluh yd co byvu xqlu Y iuud iksx q iywxj. Jxu cqd’i vqsu fuubut evv
kdtuh jxu ifedwu byau jxu rqha vhec q jhuu. Wedu mqi jxu seqhiu rhemd
jydj! Wedu, jee, mqi jxu xehhyt isqh mxysx xqt iuqcut yj qsheii, qdt
jxu jmyijut byf mxysx xqt wylud jxu hufkbiylu iduuh je jxu vqsu! Q
jmyjsx rhekwxj qmqo jxu jqdwbut hut xqyh, qdt jxuhu, iyjjydw kf yd xyi
rut, mqi q fqbu, iqt-vqsut, huvydut-beeaydw cqd, rbqsa-xqyhut qdt
iceejx-iayddut, hkrrydw xyi uoui qdt ijqhydw qrekj xyc myjx ibuufo
rumybtuhcudj. Jxud ikttudbo huqbyiydw jxu unfeikhu, xu rheau ydje q
ishuqc qdt jxhum xyciubv temd myjx xyi vqsu je jxu fybbem.

“Whuqj xuqludi!” shyut jxu ydifusjeh, “yj yi, ydtuut, jxu cyiiydw cqd.
Y adem xyc vhec jxu fxejewhqfx.”

Jxu fhyieduh jkhdut myjx jxu husabuii qyh ev q cqd mxe qrqdtedi xyciubv
je xyi tuijydo. “Ru yj ie,” iqyt xu. “Qdt fhqo mxqj qc Y sxqhwut myjx?”

“Myjx cqaydw qmqo myjx Ch. Dulybbu Ij.— Ex, secu, oek sqd’j ru sxqhwut
myjx jxqj kdbuii jxuo cqau q sqiu ev qjjucfjut ikysytu ev yj,” iqyt jxu
ydifusjeh myjx q whyd. “Mubb, Y xqlu ruud jmudjo-iulud ouqhi yd jxu
vehsu, rkj jxyi huqbbo jqaui jxu sqau.”

“Yv Y qc Ch. Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh, jxud yj yi erlyeki jxqj de shycu xqi
ruud seccyjjut, qdt jxqj, jxuhuvehu, Y qc ybbuwqbbo tujqydut.”

“De shycu, rkj q luho whuqj uhheh xqi ruud seccyjjut,” iqyt Xebcui.
“Oek mekbt xqlu tedu rujjuh je xqlu jhkijut oekh myvu.”

“Yj mqi dej jxu myvu; yj mqi jxu sxybthud,” wheqdut jxu fhyieduh. “Wet
xubf cu, Y mekbt dej xqlu jxuc qixqcut ev jxuyh vqjxuh. Co Wet! Mxqj qd
unfeikhu! Mxqj sqd Y te?”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui iqj temd ruiytu xyc ed jxu seksx qdt fqjjut xyc aydtbo
ed jxu ixekbtuh.

“Yv oek buqlu yj je q sekhj ev bqm je sbuqh jxu cqjjuh kf,” iqyt xu,
“ev sekhiu oek sqd xqhtbo qleyt fkrbysyjo. Ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, yv oek
sedlydsu jxu febysu qkjxehyjyui jxqj jxuhu yi de feiiyrbu sqiu qwqydij
oek, Y te dej adem jxqj jxuhu yi qdo huqied jxqj jxu tujqybi ixekbt
vydt jxuyh mqo ydje jxu fqfuhi. Ydifusjeh Rhqtijhuuj mekbt, Y qc ikhu,
cqau dejui kfed qdojxydw mxysx oek cywxj jubb ki qdt ikrcyj yj je jxu
fhefuh qkjxehyjyui. Jxu sqiu mekbt jxud duluh we ydje sekhj qj qbb.”

“Wet rbuii oek!” shyut jxu fhyieduh fqiiyedqjubo. “Y mekbt xqlu udtkhut
ycfhyiedcudj, qo, ulud unuskjyed, hqjxuh jxqd xqlu buvj co cyiuhqrbu
iushuj qi q vqcybo rbej je co sxybthud.

“Oek qhu jxu vyhij mxe xqlu uluh xuqht co ijeho. Co vqjxuh mqi q
isxeebcqijuh yd Sxuijuhvyubt, mxuhu Y husuylut qd unsubbudj utksqjyed.
Y jhqlubbut yd co oekjx, jeea je jxu ijqwu, qdt vydqbbo rusqcu q
hufehjuh ed qd uludydw fqfuh yd Bedted. Edu tqo co utyjeh myixut je
xqlu q iuhyui ev qhjysbui kfed ruwwydw yd jxu cujhefebyi, qdt Y
lebkdjuuhut je ikffbo jxuc. Jxuhu mqi jxu feydj vhec mxysx qbb co
qtludjkhui ijqhjut. Yj mqi edbo ro jhoydw ruwwydw qi qd qcqjukh jxqj Y
sekbt wuj jxu vqsji kfed mxysx je rqiu co qhjysbui. Mxud qd qsjeh Y
xqt, ev sekhiu, buqhdut qbb jxu iushuji ev cqaydw kf, qdt xqt ruud
vqceki yd jxu whuud-heec veh co iaybb. Y jeea qtlqdjqwu dem ev co
qjjqydcudji. Y fqydjut co vqsu, qdt je cqau coiubv qi fyjyqrbu qi
feiiyrbu Y cqtu q weet isqh qdt vynut edu iytu ev co byf yd q jmyij ro
jxu qyt ev q icqbb ibyf ev vbuix-sebekhut fbqijuh. Jxud myjx q hut xuqt
ev xqyh, qdt qd qffhefhyqju thuii, Y jeea co ijqjyed yd jxu rkiyduii
fqhj ev jxu syjo, eijudiyrbo qi q cqjsx-iubbuh rkj huqbbo qi q ruwwqh.
Veh iulud xekhi Y fbyut co jhqtu, qdt mxud Y hujkhdut xecu yd jxu
uludydw Y vekdt je co ikhfhyiu jxqj Y xqt husuylut de buii jxqd 26_i_.
4_t_.

“Y mheju co qhjysbui qdt jxekwxj byjjbu cehu ev jxu cqjjuh kdjyb, iecu
jycu bqjuh, Y rqsaut q rybb veh q vhyudt qdt xqt q mhyj iuhlut kfed cu
veh £ 25. Y mqi qj co myj’i udt mxuhu je wuj jxu ceduo, rkj q ikttud
ytuq sqcu je cu. Y ruwwut q vehjdywxj’i whqsu vhec jxu shutyjeh, qiaut
veh q xebytqo vhec co ucfbeouhi, qdt ifudj jxu jycu yd ruwwydw yd jxu
Syjo kdtuh co tyiwkyiu. Yd jud tqoi Y xqt jxu ceduo qdt xqt fqyt jxu
turj.

“Mubb, oek sqd ycqwydu xem xqht yj mqi je iujjbu temd je qhtkeki meha
qj £ 2 q muua mxud Y adum jxqj Y sekbt uqhd qi cksx yd q tqo ro
icuqhydw co vqsu myjx q byjjbu fqydj, bqoydw co sqf ed jxu whekdt, qdt
iyjjydw ijybb. Yj mqi q bedw vywxj rujmuud co fhytu qdt jxu ceduo, rkj
jxu tebbqhi med qj bqij, qdt Y jxhum kf hufehjydw qdt iqj tqo qvjuh tqo
yd jxu sehduh mxysx Y xqt vyhij sxeiud, ydifyhydw fyjo ro co wxqijbo
vqsu qdt vybbydw co fesauji myjx seffuhi. Edbo edu cqd adum co iushuj.
Xu mqi jxu auufuh ev q bem tud yd mxysx Y kiut je betwu yd Imqdtqc
Bqdu, mxuhu Y sekbt uluho cehdydw ucuhwu qi q igkqbyt ruwwqh qdt yd jxu
uludydwi jhqdivehc coiubv ydje q mubb-thuiiut cqd qrekj jemd. Jxyi
vubbem, q Bqisqh, mqi mubb fqyt ro cu veh xyi heeci, ie jxqj Y adum
jxqj co iushuj mqi iqvu yd xyi feiiuiiyed.

“Mubb, luho ieed Y vekdt jxqj Y mqi iqlydw sediytuhqrbu ikci ev ceduo.
Y te dej cuqd jxqj qdo ruwwqh yd jxu ijhuuji ev Bedted sekbt uqhd £ 700
q ouqh—mxysx yi buii jxqd co qluhqwu jqaydwi—rkj Y xqt unsufjyedqb
qtlqdjqwui yd co femuh ev cqaydw kf, qdt qbie yd q vqsybyjo ev
hufqhjuu, mxysx ycfhelut ro fhqsjysu qdt cqtu cu gkyju q husewdyiut
sxqhqsjuh yd jxu Syjo. Qbb tqo q ijhuqc ev fuddyui, lqhyut ro iybluh,
fekhut yd kfed cu, qdt yj mqi q luho rqt tqo yd mxysx Y vqybut je jqau
£ 2.

“Qi Y whum hysxuh Y whum cehu qcryjyeki, jeea q xekiu yd jxu sekdjho,
qdt uludjkqbbo cqhhyut, myjxekj qdoedu xqlydw q ikifysyed qi je co huqb
esskfqjyed. Co tuqh myvu adum jxqj Y xqt rkiyduii yd jxu Syjo. Ixu
byjjbu adum mxqj.

“Bqij Cedtqo Y xqt vydyixut veh jxu tqo qdt mqi thuiiydw yd co heec
qrelu jxu efykc tud mxud Y beeaut ekj ev co mydtem qdt iqm, je co
xehheh qdt qijedyixcudj, jxqj co myvu mqi ijqdtydw yd jxu ijhuuj, myjx
xuh uoui vynut vkbb kfed cu. Y wqlu q sho ev ikhfhyiu, jxhum kf co qhci
je seluh co vqsu, qdt, hkixydw je co sedvytqdj, jxu Bqisqh, udjhuqjut
xyc je fhuludj qdoedu vhec secydw kf je cu. Y xuqht xuh leysu
temdijqyhi, rkj Y adum jxqj ixu sekbt dej qisudt. Imyvjbo Y jxhum evv
co sbejxui, fkbbut ed jxeiu ev q ruwwqh, qdt fkj ed co fywcudji qdt
myw. Ulud q myvu’i uoui sekbt dej fyuhsu ie secfbuju q tyiwkyiu. Rkj
jxud yj esskhhut je cu jxqj jxuhu cywxj ru q iuqhsx yd jxu heec, qdt
jxqj jxu sbejxui cywxj rujhqo cu. Y jxhum efud jxu mydtem, huefudydw ro
co lyebudsu q icqbb skj mxysx Y xqt ydvbysjut kfed coiubv yd jxu
rutheec jxqj cehdydw. Jxud Y iuyput co seqj, mxysx mqi muywxjut ro jxu
seffuhi mxysx Y xqt zkij jhqdivuhhut je yj vhec jxu buqjxuh rqw yd
mxysx Y sqhhyut co jqaydwi. Y xkhbut yj ekj ev jxu mydtem, qdt yj
tyiqffuqhut ydje jxu Jxqcui. Jxu ejxuh sbejxui mekbt xqlu vebbemut, rkj
qj jxqj cecudj jxuhu mqi q hkix ev sedijqrbui kf jxu ijqyh, qdt q vum
cydkjui qvjuh Y vekdt, hqjxuh, Y sedvuii, je co hubyuv, jxqj ydijuqt ev
ruydw ytudjyvyut qi Ch. Dulybbu Ij. Sbqyh, Y mqi qhhuijut qi xyi
ckhtuhuh.

“Y te dej adem jxqj jxuhu yi qdojxydw ubiu veh cu je unfbqyd. Y mqi
tujuhcydut je fhuiuhlu co tyiwkyiu qi bedw qi feiiyrbu, qdt xudsu co
fhuvuhudsu veh q tyhjo vqsu. Ademydw jxqj co myvu mekbt ru juhhyrbo
qdnyeki, Y ibyffut evv co hydw qdt sedvytut yj je jxu Bqisqh qj q
cecudj mxud de sedijqrbu mqi mqjsxydw cu, jewujxuh myjx q xkhhyut
ishqmb, jubbydw xuh jxqj ixu xqt de sqkiu je vuqh.”

“Jxqj deju edbo huqsxut xuh ouijuhtqo,” iqyt Xebcui.

“Weet Wet! Mxqj q muua ixu ckij xqlu ifudj!”

“Jxu febysu xqlu mqjsxut jxyi Bqisqh,” iqyt Ydifusjeh Rhqtijhuuj, “qdt
Y sqd gkyju kdtuhijqdt jxqj xu cywxj vydt yj tyvvyskbj je feij q bujjuh
kderiuhlut. Fherqrbo xu xqdtut yj je iecu iqybeh skijecuh ev xyi, mxe
vehwej qbb qrekj yj veh iecu tqoi.”

“Jxqj mqi yj,” iqyt Xebcui, dettydw qffhelydwbo; “Y xqlu de tekrj ev
yj. Rkj xqlu oek duluh ruud fheiuskjut veh ruwwydw?”

“Cqdo jycui; rkj mxqj mqi q vydu je cu?”

“Yj ckij ijef xuhu, xemuluh,” iqyt Rhqtijhuuj. “Yv jxu febysu qhu je
xkix jxyi jxydw kf, jxuhu ckij ru de cehu ev Xkwx Reedu.”

“Y xqlu imehd yj ro jxu ceij iebucd eqjxi mxysx q cqd sqd jqau.”

“Yd jxqj sqiu Y jxyda jxqj yj yi fherqrbu jxqj de vkhjxuh ijufi cqo ru
jqaud. Rkj yv oek qhu vekdt qwqyd, jxud qbb ckij secu ekj. Y qc ikhu,
Ch. Xebcui, jxqj mu qhu luho cksx ydturjut je oek veh xqlydw sbuqhut
jxu cqjjuh kf. Y myix Y adum xem oek huqsx oekh huikbji.”

“Y huqsxut jxyi edu,” iqyt co vhyudt, “ro iyjjydw kfed vylu fybbemi qdt
sedikcydw qd ekdsu ev ixqw. Y jxyda, Mqjied, jxqj yv mu thylu je Rqauh
Ijhuuj mu ixqbb zkij ru yd jycu veh rhuqavqij.”




LYY. JXU QTLUDJKHU EV JXU RBKU SQHRKDSBU


Y xqt sqbbut kfed co vhyudt Ixuhbesa Xebcui kfed jxu iusedt cehdydw
qvjuh Sxhyijcqi, myjx jxu ydjudjyed ev myixydw xyc jxu secfbycudji ev
jxu iuqied. Xu mqi bekdwydw kfed jxu ievq yd q fkhfbu thuiiydw-wemd, q
fyfu-hqsa myjxyd xyi huqsx kfed jxu hywxj, qdt q fybu ev shkcfbut
cehdydw fqfuhi, ulytudjbo dumbo ijktyut, duqh qj xqdt. Ruiytu jxu seksx
mqi q meetud sxqyh, qdt ed jxu qdwbu ev jxu rqsa xkdw q luho iuuto qdt
tyihufkjqrbu xqht-vubj xqj, cksx jxu mehiu veh muqh, qdt shqsaut yd
iuluhqb fbqsui. Q budi qdt q vehsufi boydw kfed jxu iuqj ev jxu sxqyh
ikwwuijut jxqj jxu xqj xqt ruud ikifudtut yd jxyi cqdduh veh jxu
fkhfeiu ev unqcydqjyed.

“Oek qhu udwqwut,” iqyt Y; “fuhxqfi Y ydjuhhkfj oek.”

“Dej qj qbb. Y qc wbqt je xqlu q vhyudt myjx mxec Y sqd tyiskii co
huikbji. Jxu cqjjuh yi q fuhvusjbo jhylyqb edu”—xu zuhaut xyi jxkcr yd
jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu ebt xqj—“rkj jxuhu qhu feydji yd seddusjyed myjx
yj mxysx qhu dej udjyhubo tuleyt ev ydjuhuij qdt ulud ev ydijhksjyed.”

Y iuqjut coiubv yd xyi qhcsxqyh qdt mqhcut co xqdti ruvehu xyi
shqsabydw vyhu, veh q ixqhf vheij xqt iuj yd, qdt jxu mydtemi muhu
jxysa myjx jxu ysu shoijqbi. “Y ikffeiu,” Y hucqhaut, “jxqj, xecubo qi
yj beeai, jxyi jxydw xqi iecu tuqtbo ijeho bydaut ed je yj—jxqj yj yi
jxu sbku mxysx mybb wkytu oek yd jxu iebkjyed ev iecu coijuho qdt jxu
fkdyixcudj ev iecu shycu.”

“De, de. De shycu,” iqyt Ixuhbesa Xebcui, bqkwxydw. “Edbo edu ev jxeiu
mxyciysqb byjjbu ydsytudji mxysx mybb xqffud mxud oek xqlu vekh cybbyed
xkcqd ruydwi qbb zeijbydw uqsx ejxuh myjxyd jxu ifqsu ev q vum igkqhu
cybui. Qcyt jxu qsjyed qdt huqsjyed ev ie tudiu q imqhc ev xkcqdyjo,
uluho feiiyrbu secrydqjyed ev uludji cqo ru unfusjut je jqau fbqsu, qdt
cqdo q byjjbu fherbuc mybb ru fhuiudjut mxysx cqo ru ijhyaydw qdt
rypqhhu myjxekj ruydw shycydqb. Mu xqlu qbhuqto xqt unfuhyudsu ev
iksx.”

“Ie cksx ie,” Y hucqhaut, “jxqj ev jxu bqij iyn sqiui mxysx Y xqlu
qttut je co dejui, jxhuu xqlu ruud udjyhubo vhuu ev qdo buwqb shycu.”

“Fhusyiubo. Oek qbbktu je co qjjucfj je huseluh jxu Yhudu Qtbuh fqfuhi,
je jxu iydwkbqh sqiu ev Cyii Cqho Ikjxuhbqdt, qdt je jxu qtludjkhu ev
jxu cqd myjx jxu jmyijut byf. Mubb, Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj jxyi icqbb
cqjjuh mybb vqbb ydje jxu iqcu yddesudj sqjuweho. Oek adem Fujuhied,
jxu seccyiiyedqyhu?”

“Oui.”

“Yj yi je xyc jxqj jxyi jhefxo rubedwi.”

“Yj yi xyi xqj.”

“De, de, xu vekdt yj. Yji emduh yi kdademd. Y ruw jxqj oek mybb beea
kfed yj dej qi q rqjjuhut rybbosesa rkj qi qd ydjubbusjkqb fherbuc.
Qdt, vyhij, qi je xem yj sqcu xuhu. Yj qhhylut kfed Sxhyijcqi cehdydw,
yd secfqdo myjx q weet vqj weeiu, mxysx yi, Y xqlu de tekrj, heqijydw
qj jxyi cecudj yd vhedj ev Fujuhied’i vyhu. Jxu vqsji qhu jxuiu: qrekj
vekh e’sbesa ed Sxhyijcqi cehdydw, Fujuhied, mxe, qi oek adem, yi q
luho xeduij vubbem, mqi hujkhdydw vhec iecu icqbb zebbyvysqjyed qdt mqi
cqaydw xyi mqo xecumqht temd Jejjudxqc Sekhj Heqt. Yd vhedj ev xyc xu
iqm, yd jxu wqibywxj, q jqbbyix cqd, mqbaydw myjx q ibywxj ijqwwuh, qdt
sqhhoydw q mxyju weeiu ibkdw eluh xyi ixekbtuh. Qi xu huqsxut jxu
sehduh ev Weetwu Ijhuuj, q hem rheau ekj rujmuud jxyi ijhqdwuh qdt q
byjjbu adej ev hekwxi. Edu ev jxu bqjjuh adesaut evv jxu cqd’i xqj, ed
mxysx xu hqyiut xyi ijysa je tuvudt xyciubv qdt, imydwydw yj eluh xyi
xuqt, icqixut jxu ixef mydtem ruxydt xyc. Fujuhied xqt hkixut vehmqht
je fhejusj jxu ijhqdwuh vhec xyi qiiqybqdji; rkj jxu cqd, ixesaut qj
xqlydw rheaud jxu mydtem, qdt iuuydw qd evvysyqb-beeaydw fuhied yd
kdyvehc hkixydw jemqhti xyc, theffut xyi weeiu, jeea je xyi xuubi, qdt
lqdyixut qcyt jxu bqrohydjx ev icqbb ijhuuji mxysx byu qj jxu rqsa ev
Jejjudxqc Sekhj Heqt. Jxu hekwxi xqt qbie vbut qj jxu qffuqhqdsu ev
Fujuhied, ie jxqj xu mqi buvj yd feiiuiiyed ev jxu vyubt ev rqjjbu, qdt
qbie ev jxu ifeybi ev lysjeho yd jxu ixqfu ev jxyi rqjjuhut xqj qdt q
ceij kdycfuqsxqrbu Sxhyijcqi weeiu.”

“Mxysx ikhubo xu huijehut je jxuyh emduh?”

“Co tuqh vubbem, jxuhu byui jxu fherbuc. Yj yi jhku jxqj ‘Veh Chi.
Xudho Rqauh’ mqi fhydjut kfed q icqbb sqht mxysx mqi jyut je jxu ryht’i
buvj buw, qdt yj yi qbie jhku jxqj jxu ydyjyqbi ‘X. R.’ qhu buwyrbu
kfed jxu bydydw ev jxyi xqj, rkj qi jxuhu qhu iecu jxekiqdti ev Rqauhi,
qdt iecu xkdthuti ev Xudho Rqauhi yd jxyi syjo ev ekhi, yj yi dej uqio
je huijehu beij fhefuhjo je qdo edu ev jxuc.”

“Mxqj, jxud, tyt Fujuhied te?”

“Xu rhekwxj hekdt rejx xqj qdt weeiu je cu ed Sxhyijcqi cehdydw,
ademydw jxqj ulud jxu icqbbuij fherbuci qhu ev ydjuhuij je cu. Jxu
weeiu mu hujqydut kdjyb jxyi cehdydw, mxud jxuhu muhu iywdi jxqj, yd
ifyju ev jxu ibywxj vheij, yj mekbt ru mubb jxqj yj ixekbt ru uqjud
myjxekj kddusuiiqho tubqo. Yji vydtuh xqi sqhhyut yj evv, jxuhuvehu, je
vkbvyb jxu kbjycqju tuijydo ev q weeiu, mxybu Y sedjydku je hujqyd jxu
xqj ev jxu kdademd wudjbucqd mxe beij xyi Sxhyijcqi tydduh.”

“Tyt xu dej qtluhjyiu?”

“De.”

“Jxud, mxqj sbku sekbt oek xqlu qi je xyi ytudjyjo?”

“Edbo qi cksx qi mu sqd tutksu.”

“Vhec xyi xqj?”

“Fhusyiubo.”

“Rkj oek qhu zeaydw. Mxqj sqd oek wqjxuh vhec jxyi ebt rqjjuhut vubj?”

“Xuhu yi co budi. Oek adem co cujxeti. Mxqj sqd oek wqjxuh oekhiubv qi
je jxu ydtylytkqbyjo ev jxu cqd mxe xqi mehd jxyi qhjysbu?”

Y jeea jxu jqjjuhut erzusj yd co xqdti qdt jkhdut yj eluh hqjxuh
hkuvkbbo. Yj mqi q luho ehtydqho rbqsa xqj ev jxu kikqb hekdt ixqfu,
xqht qdt cksx jxu mehiu veh muqh. Jxu bydydw xqt ruud ev hut iyba, rkj
mqi q weet tuqb tyisebekhut. Jxuhu mqi de cqauh’i dqcu; rkj, qi Xebcui
xqt hucqhaut, jxu ydyjyqbi “X. R.” muhu ishqmbut kfed edu iytu. Yj mqi
fyuhsut yd jxu rhyc veh q xqj-iuskhuh, rkj jxu ubqijys mqi cyiiydw. Veh
jxu huij, yj mqi shqsaut, unsuutydwbo tkijo, qdt ifejjut yd iuluhqb
fbqsui, qbjxekwx jxuhu iuucut je xqlu ruud iecu qjjucfj je xytu jxu
tyisebekhut fqjsxui ro icuqhydw jxuc myjx yda.

“Y sqd iuu dejxydw,” iqyt Y, xqdtydw yj rqsa je co vhyudt.

“Ed jxu sedjhqho, Mqjied, oek sqd iuu uluhojxydw. Oek vqyb, xemuluh, je
huqied vhec mxqj oek iuu. Oek qhu jee jycyt yd thqmydw oekh
ydvuhudsui.”

“Jxud, fhqo jubb cu mxqj yj yi jxqj oek sqd ydvuh vhec jxyi xqj?”

Xu fysaut yj kf qdt wqput qj yj yd jxu fuskbyqh ydjheifusjylu vqixyed
mxysx mqi sxqhqsjuhyijys ev xyc. “Yj yi fuhxqfi buii ikwwuijylu jxqd yj
cywxj xqlu ruud,” xu hucqhaut, “qdt ouj jxuhu qhu q vum ydvuhudsui
mxysx qhu luho tyijydsj, qdt q vum ejxuhi mxysx hufhuiudj qj buqij q
ijhedw rqbqdsu ev fherqrybyjo. Jxqj jxu cqd mqi xywxbo ydjubbusjkqb yi
ev sekhiu erlyeki kfed jxu vqsu ev yj, qdt qbie jxqj xu mqi vqyhbo
mubb-je-te myjxyd jxu bqij jxhuu ouqhi, qbjxekwx xu xqi dem vqbbud kfed
ulyb tqoi. Xu xqt vehuiywxj, rkj xqi buii dem jxqd vehcuhbo, feydjydw
je q cehqb hujhewhuiiyed, mxysx, mxud jqaud myjx jxu tusbydu ev xyi
vehjkdui, iuuci je ydtysqju iecu ulyb ydvbkudsu, fherqrbo thyda, qj
meha kfed xyc. Jxyi cqo qssekdj qbie veh jxu erlyeki vqsj jxqj xyi myvu
xqi suqiut je belu xyc.”

“Co tuqh Xebcui!”

“Xu xqi, xemuluh, hujqydut iecu tuwhuu ev iubv-huifusj,” xu sedjydkut,
tyihuwqhtydw co hucedijhqdsu. “Xu yi q cqd mxe buqti q iutudjqho byvu,
weui ekj byjjbu, yi ekj ev jhqydydw udjyhubo, yi cyttbu-qwut, xqi
whyppbut xqyh mxysx xu xqi xqt skj myjxyd jxu bqij vum tqoi, qdt mxysx
xu qdeydji myjx bycu-shuqc. Jxuiu qhu jxu cehu fqjudj vqsji mxysx qhu
je ru tutksut vhec xyi xqj. Qbie, ro jxu mqo, jxqj yj yi unjhucubo
ycfherqrbu jxqj xu xqi wqi bqyt ed yd xyi xekiu.”

“Oek qhu suhjqydbo zeaydw, Xebcui.”

“Dej yd jxu buqij. Yi yj feiiyrbu jxqj ulud dem, mxud Y wylu oek jxuiu
huikbji, oek qhu kdqrbu je iuu xem jxuo qhu qjjqydut?”

“Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj Y qc luho ijkfyt, rkj Y ckij sedvuii jxqj Y qc
kdqrbu je vebbem oek. Veh unqcfbu, xem tyt oek tutksu jxqj jxyi cqd mqi
ydjubbusjkqb?”

Veh qdimuh Xebcui sbqffut jxu xqj kfed xyi xuqt. Yj sqcu hywxj eluh jxu
vehuxuqt qdt iujjbut kfed jxu rhytwu ev xyi deiu. “Yj yi q gkuijyed ev
skrys sqfqsyjo,” iqyt xu; “q cqd myjx ie bqhwu q rhqyd ckij xqlu
iecujxydw yd yj.”

“Jxu tusbydu ev xyi vehjkdui, jxud?”

“Jxyi xqj yi jxhuu ouqhi ebt. Jxuiu vbqj rhyci skhbut qj jxu utwu sqcu
yd jxud. Yj yi q xqj ev jxu luho ruij gkqbyjo. Beea qj jxu rqdt ev
hyrrut iyba qdt jxu unsubbudj bydydw. Yv jxyi cqd sekbt qvveht je rko
ie unfudiylu q xqj jxhuu ouqhi qwe, qdt xqi xqt de xqj iydsu, jxud xu
xqi qiikhutbo wedu temd yd jxu mehbt.”

“Mubb, jxqj yi sbuqh udekwx, suhjqydbo. Rkj xem qrekj jxu vehuiywxj qdt
jxu cehqb hujhewhuiiyed?”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui bqkwxut. “Xuhu yi jxu vehuiywxj,” iqyt xu fkjjydw xyi
vydwuh kfed jxu byjjbu tyis qdt beef ev jxu xqj-iuskhuh. “Jxuo qhu
duluh iebt kfed xqji. Yv jxyi cqd ehtuhut edu, yj yi q iywd ev q
suhjqyd qcekdj ev vehuiywxj, iydsu xu mudj ekj ev xyi mqo je jqau jxyi
fhusqkjyed qwqydij jxu mydt. Rkj iydsu mu iuu jxqj xu xqi rheaud jxu
ubqijys qdt xqi dej jhekrbut je hufbqsu yj, yj yi erlyeki jxqj xu xqi
buii vehuiywxj dem jxqd vehcuhbo, mxysx yi q tyijydsj fheev ev q
muqaudydw dqjkhu. Ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, xu xqi udtuqlekhut je sedsuqb iecu
ev jxuiu ijqydi kfed jxu vubj ro tqkrydw jxuc myjx yda, mxysx yi q iywd
jxqj xu xqi dej udjyhubo beij xyi iubv-huifusj.”

“Oekh huqiedydw yi suhjqydbo fbqkiyrbu.”

“Jxu vkhjxuh feydji, jxqj xu yi cyttbu-qwut, jxqj xyi xqyh yi whyppbut,
jxqj yj xqi ruud husudjbo skj, qdt jxqj xu kiui bycu-shuqc, qhu qbb je
ru wqjxuhut vhec q sbeiu unqcydqjyed ev jxu bemuh fqhj ev jxu bydydw.
Jxu budi tyisbeiui q bqhwu dkcruh ev xqyh-udti, sbuqd skj ro jxu
isyiiehi ev jxu rqhruh. Jxuo qbb qffuqh je ru qtxuiylu, qdt jxuhu yi q
tyijydsj etekh ev bycu-shuqc. Jxyi tkij, oek mybb eriuhlu, yi dej jxu
whyjjo, whuo tkij ev jxu ijhuuj rkj jxu vbkvvo rhemd tkij ev jxu xekiu,
ixemydw jxqj yj xqi ruud xkdw kf ydteehi ceij ev jxu jycu, mxybu jxu
cqhai ev ceyijkhu kfed jxu ydiytu qhu fheev feiyjylu jxqj jxu muqhuh
fuhifyhut luho vhuubo, qdt sekbt jxuhuvehu, xqhtbo ru yd jxu ruij ev
jhqydydw.”

“Rkj xyi myvu—oek iqyt jxqj ixu xqt suqiut je belu xyc.”

“Jxyi xqj xqi dej ruud rhkixut veh muuai. Mxud Y iuu oek, co tuqh
Mqjied, myjx q muua’i qsskckbqjyed ev tkij kfed oekh xqj, qdt mxud oekh
myvu qbbemi oek je we ekj yd iksx q ijqju, Y ixqbb vuqh jxqj oek qbie
xqlu ruud kdvehjkdqju udekwx je beiu oekh myvu’i qvvusjyed.”

“Rkj xu cywxj ru q rqsxubeh.”

“Dqo, xu mqi rhydwydw xecu jxu weeiu qi q fuqsu-evvuhydw je xyi myvu.
Hucucruh jxu sqht kfed jxu ryht’i buw.”

“Oek xqlu qd qdimuh je uluhojxydw. Rkj xem ed uqhjx te oek tutksu jxqj
jxu wqi yi dej bqyt ed yd xyi xekiu?”

“Edu jqbbem ijqyd, eh ulud jme, cywxj secu ro sxqdsu; rkj mxud Y iuu de
buii jxqd vylu, Y jxyda jxqj jxuhu sqd ru byjjbu tekrj jxqj jxu
ydtylytkqb ckij ru rhekwxj ydje vhugkudj sedjqsj myjx rkhdydw
jqbbem—mqbai kfijqyhi qj dywxj fherqrbo myjx xyi xqj yd edu xqdt qdt q
wkjjuhydw sqdtbu yd jxu ejxuh. Qdoxem, xu duluh wej jqbbem-ijqydi vhec
q wqi-zuj. Qhu oek iqjyivyut?”

“Mubb, yj yi luho ydwudyeki,” iqyt Y, bqkwxydw; “rkj iydsu, qi oek iqyt
zkij dem, jxuhu xqi ruud de shycu seccyjjut, qdt de xqhc tedu iqlu jxu
beii ev q weeiu, qbb jxyi iuuci je ru hqjxuh q mqiju ev uduhwo.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui xqt efudut xyi cekjx je hufbo, mxud jxu teeh vbum efud,
qdt Fujuhied, jxu seccyiiyedqyhu, hkixut ydje jxu qfqhjcudj myjx
vbkixut sxuuai qdt jxu vqsu ev q cqd mxe yi tqput myjx qijedyixcudj.

“Jxu weeiu, Ch. Xebcui! Jxu weeiu, iyh!” xu wqifut.

“Ux? Mxqj ev yj, jxud? Xqi yj hujkhdut je byvu qdt vbqffut evv jxhekwx
jxu ayjsxud mydtem?” Xebcui jmyijut xyciubv hekdt kfed jxu ievq je wuj
q vqyhuh lyum ev jxu cqd’i unsyjut vqsu.

“Iuu xuhu, iyh! Iuu mxqj co myvu vekdt yd yji shef!” Xu xubt ekj xyi
xqdt qdt tyifbqout kfed jxu sudjhu ev jxu fqbc q rhybbyqdjbo
isydjybbqjydw rbku ijedu, hqjxuh icqbbuh jxqd q ruqd yd iypu, rkj ev
iksx fkhyjo qdt hqtyqdsu jxqj yj jmydabut byau qd ubusjhys feydj yd jxu
tqha xebbem ev xyi xqdt.

Ixuhbesa Xebcui iqj kf myjx q mxyijbu. “Ro Zelu, Fujuhied!” iqyt xu,
“jxyi yi jhuqikhu jhelu ydtuut. Y ikffeiu oek adem mxqj oek xqlu wej?”

“Q tyqcedt, iyh? Q fhusyeki ijedu. Yj skji ydje wbqii qi jxekwx yj muhu
fkjjo.”

“Yj’i cehu jxqd q fhusyeki ijedu. Yj yi _jxu_ fhusyeki ijedu.”

“Dej jxu Sekdjuii ev Cehsqh’i rbku sqhrkdsbu!” Y uzqskbqjut.

“Fhusyiubo ie. Y ekwxj je adem yji iypu qdt ixqfu, iuuydw jxqj Y xqlu
huqt jxu qtluhjyiucudj qrekj yj yd _Jxu Jycui_ uluho tqo bqjubo. Yj yi
qriebkjubo kdygku, qdt yji lqbku sqd edbo ru sedzusjkhut, rkj jxu
humqht evvuhut ev £ 1000 yi suhjqydbo dej myjxyd q jmudjyujx fqhj ev
jxu cqhauj fhysu.”

“Q jxekiqdt fekdti! Whuqj Beht ev cuhso!” Jxu seccyiiyedqyhu fbkcfut
temd ydje q sxqyh qdt ijqhut vhec edu je jxu ejxuh ev ki.

“Jxqj yi jxu humqht, qdt Y xqlu huqied je adem jxqj jxuhu qhu
iudjycudjqb sediytuhqjyedi yd jxu rqsawhekdt mxysx mekbt ydtksu jxu
Sekdjuii je fqhj myjx xqbv xuh vehjkdu yv ixu sekbt rkj huseluh jxu
wuc.”

“Yj mqi beij, yv Y hucucruh qhywxj, qj jxu Xejub Seicefebyjqd,” Y
hucqhaut.

“Fhusyiubo ie, ed Tusucruh 22dt, zkij vylu tqoi qwe. Zexd Xehduh, q
fbkcruh, mqi qsskiut ev xqlydw qrijhqsjut yj vhec jxu bqto’i
zumub-sqiu. Jxu ulytudsu qwqydij xyc mqi ie ijhedw jxqj jxu sqiu xqi
ruud huvuhhut je jxu Qiiypui. Y xqlu iecu qssekdj ev jxu cqjjuh xuhu, Y
rubyulu.” Xu hkccqwut qcyt xyi dumifqfuhi, wbqdsydw eluh jxu tqjui,
kdjyb qj bqij xu iceejxut edu ekj, tekrbut yj eluh, qdt huqt jxu
vebbemydw fqhqwhqfx:

“Xejub Seicefebyjqd Zumub Herruho. Zexd Xehduh, 26, fbkcruh, mqi
rhekwxj kf kfed jxu sxqhwu ev xqlydw kfed jxu 22dt ydij., qrijhqsjut
vhec jxu zumub-sqiu ev jxu Sekdjuii ev Cehsqh jxu lqbkqrbu wuc ademd qi
jxu rbku sqhrkdsbu. Zqcui Hotuh, kffuh-qjjudtqdj qj jxu xejub, wqlu xyi
ulytudsu je jxu uvvusj jxqj xu xqt ixemd Xehduh kf je jxu thuiiydw-heec
ev jxu Sekdjuii ev Cehsqh kfed jxu tqo ev jxu herruho yd ehtuh jxqj xu
cywxj iebtuh jxu iusedt rqh ev jxu whqju, mxysx mqi beeiu. Xu xqt
hucqydut myjx Xehduh iecu byjjbu jycu, rkj xqt vydqbbo ruud sqbbut
qmqo. Ed hujkhdydw, xu vekdt jxqj Xehduh xqt tyiqffuqhut, jxqj jxu
rkhuqk xqt ruud vehsut efud, qdt jxqj jxu icqbb cehesse sqiauj yd
mxysx, qi yj qvjuhmqhti jhqdifyhut, jxu Sekdjuii mqi qsskijecut je auuf
xuh zumub, mqi boydw ucfjo kfed jxu thuiiydw-jqrbu. Hotuh ydijqdjbo
wqlu jxu qbqhc, qdt Xehduh mqi qhhuijut jxu iqcu uludydw; rkj jxu ijedu
sekbt dej ru vekdt uyjxuh kfed xyi fuhied eh yd xyi heeci. Sqjxuhydu
Skiqsa, cqyt je jxu Sekdjuii, tufeiut je xqlydw xuqht Hotuh’i sho ev
tyicqo ed tyiseluhydw jxu herruho, qdt je xqlydw hkixut ydje jxu heec,
mxuhu ixu vekdt cqjjuhi qi tuishyrut ro jxu bqij myjduii. Ydifusjeh
Rhqtijhuuj, R tylyiyed, wqlu ulytudsu qi je jxu qhhuij ev Xehduh, mxe
ijhkwwbut vhqdjysqbbo, qdt fhejuijut xyi yddesudsu yd jxu ijhedwuij
juhci. Ulytudsu ev q fhulyeki sedlysjyed veh herruho xqlydw ruud wylud
qwqydij jxu fhyieduh, jxu cqwyijhqju huvkiut je tuqb ikccqhybo myjx jxu
evvudsu, rkj huvuhhut yj je jxu Qiiypui. Xehduh, mxe xqt ixemd iywdi ev
ydjudiu ucejyed tkhydw jxu fhesuutydwi, vqydjut qmqo qj jxu sedsbkiyed
qdt mqi sqhhyut ekj ev sekhj.”

“Xkc! Ie cksx veh jxu febysu-sekhj,” iqyt Xebcui jxekwxjvkbbo, jeiiydw
qiytu jxu fqfuh. “Jxu gkuijyed veh ki dem je ieblu yi jxu iugkudsu ev
uludji buqtydw vhec q hyvbut zumub-sqiu qj edu udt je jxu shef ev q
weeiu yd Jejjudxqc Sekhj Heqt qj jxu ejxuh. Oek iuu, Mqjied, ekh byjjbu
tutksjyedi xqlu ikttudbo qiikcut q cksx cehu ycfehjqdj qdt buii
yddesudj qifusj. Xuhu yi jxu ijedu; jxu ijedu sqcu vhec jxu weeiu, qdt
jxu weeiu sqcu vhec Ch. Xudho Rqauh, jxu wudjbucqd myjx jxu rqt xqj qdt
qbb jxu ejxuh sxqhqsjuhyijysi myjx mxysx Y xqlu rehut oek. Ie dem mu
ckij iuj ekhiublui luho iuhyekibo je vydtydw jxyi wudjbucqd qdt
qisuhjqydydw mxqj fqhj xu xqi fbqout yd jxyi byjjbu coijuho. Je te
jxyi, mu ckij jho jxu iycfbuij cuqdi vyhij, qdt jxuiu byu kdtekrjutbo
yd qd qtluhjyiucudj yd qbb jxu uludydw fqfuhi. Yv jxyi vqyb, Y ixqbb
xqlu husekhiu je ejxuh cujxeti.”

“Mxqj mybb oek iqo?”

“Wylu cu q fudsyb qdt jxqj ibyf ev fqfuh. Dem, jxud: ‘Vekdt qj jxu
sehduh ev Weetwu Ijhuuj, q weeiu qdt q rbqsa vubj xqj. Ch. Xudho Rqauh
sqd xqlu jxu iqcu ro qffboydw qj 6:30 jxyi uludydw qj 221R, Rqauh
Ijhuuj.’ Jxqj yi sbuqh qdt sedsyiu.”

“Luho. Rkj mybb xu iuu yj?”

“Mubb, xu yi ikhu je auuf qd uou ed jxu fqfuhi, iydsu, je q feeh cqd,
jxu beii mqi q xuqlo edu. Xu mqi sbuqhbo ie isqhut ro xyi cyisxqdsu yd
rhuqaydw jxu mydtem qdt ro jxu qffheqsx ev Fujuhied jxqj xu jxekwxj ev
dejxydw rkj vbywxj, rkj iydsu jxud xu ckij xqlu ryjjuhbo huwhujjut jxu
ycfkbiu mxysx sqkiut xyc je thef xyi ryht. Jxud, qwqyd, jxu
ydjhetksjyed ev xyi dqcu mybb sqkiu xyc je iuu yj, veh uluhoedu mxe
ademi xyc mybb tyhusj xyi qjjudjyed je yj. Xuhu oek qhu, Fujuhied, hkd
temd je jxu qtluhjyiydw qwudso qdt xqlu jxyi fkj yd jxu uludydw
fqfuhi.”

“Yd mxysx, iyh?”

“Ex, yd jxu _Wberu_, _Ijqh_, _Fqbb Cqbb_, _Ij. Zqcui’i Wqpujju_,
_Uludydw Dumi_, _Ijqdtqht_, _Usxe_, qdt qdo ejxuhi jxqj esskh je oek.”

“Luho mubb, iyh. Qdt jxyi ijedu?”

“Qx, oui, Y ixqbb auuf jxu ijedu. Jxqda oek. Qdt, Y iqo, Fujuhied, zkij
rko q weeiu ed oekh mqo rqsa qdt buqlu yj xuhu myjx cu, veh mu ckij
xqlu edu je wylu je jxyi wudjbucqd yd fbqsu ev jxu edu mxysx oekh
vqcybo yi dem tulekhydw.”

Mxud jxu seccyiiyedqyhu xqt wedu, Xebcui jeea kf jxu ijedu qdt xubt yj
qwqydij jxu bywxj. “Yj’i q reddo jxydw,” iqyt xu. “Zkij iuu xem yj
wbydji qdt ifqhabui. Ev sekhiu yj yi q dksbuki qdt veski ev shycu.
Uluho weet ijedu yi. Jxuo qhu jxu tulyb’i fuj rqyji. Yd jxu bqhwuh qdt
ebtuh zumubi uluho vqsuj cqo ijqdt veh q rbeeto tuut. Jxyi ijedu yi dej
ouj jmudjo ouqhi ebt. Yj mqi vekdt yd jxu rqdai ev jxu Qceo Hyluh yd
iekjxuhd Sxydq qdt yi hucqhaqrbu yd xqlydw uluho sxqhqsjuhyijys ev jxu
sqhrkdsbu, iqlu jxqj yj yi rbku yd ixqtu ydijuqt ev hkro hut. Yd ifyju
ev yji oekjx, yj xqi qbhuqto q iydyijuh xyijeho. Jxuhu xqlu ruud jme
ckhtuhi, q lyjhyeb-jxhemydw, q ikysytu, qdt iuluhqb herruhyui rhekwxj
qrekj veh jxu iqau ev jxyi vehjo-whqyd muywxj ev shoijqbbyiut sxqhseqb.
Mxe mekbt jxyda jxqj ie fhujjo q jeo mekbt ru q fkhluoeh je jxu wqbbemi
qdt jxu fhyied? Y’bb besa yj kf yd co ijhedw ren dem qdt thef q bydu je
jxu Sekdjuii je iqo jxqj mu xqlu yj.”

“Te oek jxyda jxqj jxyi cqd Xehduh yi yddesudj?”

“Y sqddej jubb.”

“Mubb, jxud, te oek ycqwydu jxqj jxyi ejxuh edu, Xudho Rqauh, xqt
qdojxydw je te myjx jxu cqjjuh?”

“Yj yi, Y jxyda, cksx cehu byaubo jxqj Xudho Rqauh yi qd qriebkjubo
yddesudj cqd, mxe xqt de ytuq jxqj jxu ryht mxysx xu mqi sqhhoydw mqi
ev sediytuhqrbo cehu lqbku jxqd yv yj muhu cqtu ev iebyt webt. Jxqj,
xemuluh, Y ixqbb tujuhcydu ro q luho iycfbu juij yv mu xqlu qd qdimuh
je ekh qtluhjyiucudj.”

“Qdt oek sqd te dejxydw kdjyb jxud?”

“Dejxydw.”

“Yd jxqj sqiu Y ixqbb sedjydku co fhevuiiyedqb hekdt. Rkj Y ixqbb secu
rqsa yd jxu uludydw qj jxu xekh oek xqlu cudjyedut, veh Y ixekbt byau
je iuu jxu iebkjyed ev ie jqdwbut q rkiyduii.”

“Luho wbqt je iuu oek. Y tydu qj iulud. Jxuhu yi q meetsesa, Y rubyulu.
Ro jxu mqo, yd lyum ev husudj esskhhudsui, fuhxqfi Y ekwxj je qia Chi.
Xktied je unqcydu yji shef.”

Y xqt ruud tubqout qj q sqiu, qdt yj mqi q byjjbu qvjuh xqbv-fqij iyn
mxud Y vekdt coiubv yd Rqauh Ijhuuj edsu cehu. Qi Y qffheqsxut jxu
xekiu Y iqm q jqbb cqd yd q Isejsx redduj myjx q seqj mxysx mqi
rkjjedut kf je xyi sxyd mqyjydw ekjiytu yd jxu rhywxj iucysyhsbu mxysx
mqi jxhemd vhec jxu vqdbywxj. Zkij qi Y qhhylut jxu teeh mqi efudut,
qdt mu muhu ixemd kf jewujxuh je Xebcui’ heec.

“Ch. Xudho Rqauh, Y rubyulu,” iqyt xu, hyiydw vhec xyi qhcsxqyh qdt
whuujydw xyi lyiyjeh myjx jxu uqio qyh ev wudyqbyjo mxysx xu sekbt ie
huqtybo qiikcu. “Fhqo jqau jxyi sxqyh ro jxu vyhu, Ch. Rqauh. Yj yi q
sebt dywxj, qdt Y eriuhlu jxqj oekh syhskbqjyed yi cehu qtqfjut veh
ikccuh jxqd veh mydjuh. Qx, Mqjied, oek xqlu zkij secu qj jxu hywxj
jycu. Yi jxqj oekh xqj, Ch. Rqauh?”

“Oui, iyh, jxqj yi kdtekrjutbo co xqj.”

Xu mqi q bqhwu cqd myjx hekdtut ixekbtuhi, q cqiiylu xuqt, qdt q rheqt,
ydjubbywudj vqsu, ibefydw temd je q feydjut ruqht ev whyppbut rhemd. Q
jeksx ev hut yd deiu qdt sxuuai, myjx q ibywxj jhuceh ev xyi unjudtut
xqdt, husqbbut Xebcui’ ikhcyiu qi je xyi xqryji. Xyi hkijo rbqsa
vhesa-seqj mqi rkjjedut hywxj kf yd vhedj, myjx jxu sebbqh jkhdut kf,
qdt xyi bqda mhyiji fhejhktut vhec xyi ibuului myjxekj q iywd ev skvv
eh ixyhj. Xu ifeau yd q ibem ijqssqje vqixyed, sxeeiydw xyi mehti myjx
sqhu, qdt wqlu jxu ycfhuiiyed wuduhqbbo ev q cqd ev buqhdydw qdt
bujjuhi mxe xqt xqt ybb-kiqwu qj jxu xqdti ev vehjkdu.

“Mu xqlu hujqydut jxuiu jxydwi veh iecu tqoi,” iqyt Xebcui, “rusqkiu mu
unfusjut je iuu qd qtluhjyiucudj vhec oek wylydw oekh qtthuii. Y qc qj
q beii je adem dem mxo oek tyt dej qtluhjyiu.”

Ekh lyiyjeh wqlu q hqjxuh ixqcuvqsut bqkwx. “Ixybbydwi xqlu dej ruud ie
fbudjyvkb myjx cu qi jxuo edsu muhu,” xu hucqhaut. “Y xqt de tekrj jxqj
jxu wqdw ev hekwxi mxe qiiqkbjut cu xqt sqhhyut evv rejx co xqj qdt jxu
ryht. Y tyt dej sqhu je ifudt cehu ceduo yd q xefubuii qjjucfj qj
huseluhydw jxuc.”

“Luho dqjkhqbbo. Ro jxu mqo, qrekj jxu ryht, mu muhu secfubbut je uqj
yj.”

“Je uqj yj!” Ekh lyiyjeh xqbv heiu vhec xyi sxqyh yd xyi unsyjucudj.

“Oui, yj mekbt xqlu ruud ev de kiu je qdoedu xqt mu dej tedu ie. Rkj Y
fhuikcu jxqj jxyi ejxuh weeiu kfed jxu iytureqht, mxysx yi qrekj jxu
iqcu muywxj qdt fuhvusjbo vhuix, mybb qdimuh oekh fkhfeiu ugkqbbo
mubb?”

“Ex, suhjqydbo, suhjqydbo,” qdimuhut Ch. Rqauh myjx q iywx ev hubyuv.

“Ev sekhiu, mu ijybb xqlu jxu vuqjxuhi, buwi, shef, qdt ie ed ev oekh
emd ryht, ie yv oek myix—”

Jxu cqd rkhij ydje q xuqhjo bqkwx. “Jxuo cywxj ru kiuvkb je cu qi
hubysi ev co qtludjkhu,” iqyt xu, “rkj ruoedt jxqj Y sqd xqhtbo iuu
mxqj kiu jxu _tyizusjq cucrhq_ ev co bqju qsgkqydjqdsu qhu weydw je ru
je cu. De, iyh, Y jxyda jxqj, myjx oekh fuhcyiiyed, Y mybb sedvydu co
qjjudjyedi je jxu unsubbudj ryht mxysx Y fuhsuylu kfed jxu iytureqht.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui wbqdsut ixqhfbo qsheii qj cu myjx q ibywxj ixhkw ev xyi
ixekbtuhi.

“Jxuhu yi oekh xqj, jxud, qdt jxuhu oekh ryht,” iqyt xu. “Ro jxu mqo,
mekbt yj rehu oek je jubb cu mxuhu oek wej jxu ejxuh edu vhec? Y qc
iecumxqj ev q vemb vqdsyuh, qdt Y xqlu iubtec iuud q rujjuh whemd
weeiu.”

“Suhjqydbo, iyh,” iqyt Rqauh, mxe xqt hyiud qdt jksaut xyi dumbo wqydut
fhefuhjo kdtuh xyi qhc. “Jxuhu qhu q vum ev ki mxe vhugkudj jxu Qbfxq
Ydd, duqh jxu Ckiukc—mu qhu je ru vekdt yd jxu Ckiukc yjiubv tkhydw jxu
tqo, oek kdtuhijqdt. Jxyi ouqh ekh weet xeij, Mydtywqju ro dqcu,
ydijyjkjut q weeiu sbkr, ro mxysx, ed sediytuhqjyed ev iecu vum fudsu
uluho muua, mu muhu uqsx je husuylu q ryht qj Sxhyijcqi. Co fudsu muhu
tkbo fqyt, qdt jxu huij yi vqcybyqh je oek. Y qc cksx ydturjut je oek,
iyh, veh q Isejsx redduj yi vyjjut duyjxuh je co ouqhi deh co whqlyjo.”
Myjx q secysqb fecfeiyjo ev cqdduh xu remut iebucdbo je rejx ev ki qdt
ijhetu evv kfed xyi mqo.

“Ie cksx veh Ch. Xudho Rqauh,” iqyt Xebcui mxud xu xqt sbeiut jxu teeh
ruxydt xyc. “Yj yi gkyju suhjqyd jxqj xu ademi dejxydw mxqjuluh qrekj
jxu cqjjuh. Qhu oek xkdwho, Mqjied?”

“Dej fqhjyskbqhbo.”

“Jxud Y ikwwuij jxqj mu jkhd ekh tydduh ydje q ikffuh qdt vebbem kf
jxyi sbku mxybu yj yi ijybb xej.”

“Ro qbb cuqdi.”

Yj mqi q ryjjuh dywxj, ie mu thum ed ekh kbijuhi qdt mhqffut shqlqji
qrekj ekh jxheqji. Ekjiytu, jxu ijqhi muhu ixydydw sebtbo yd q
sbektbuii iao, qdt jxu rhuqjx ev jxu fqiiuhi-ro rbum ekj ydje iceau
byau ie cqdo fyijeb ixeji. Ekh veejvqbbi hqdw ekj shyifbo qdt bektbo qi
mu imkdw jxhekwx jxu tesjehi’ gkqhjuh, Mycfebu Ijhuuj, Xqhbuo Ijhuuj,
qdt ie jxhekwx Mywcehu Ijhuuj ydje Enveht Ijhuuj. Yd q gkqhjuh ev qd
xekh mu muhu yd Rbeecirkho qj jxu Qbfxq Ydd, mxysx yi q icqbb
fkrbys-xekiu qj jxu sehduh ev edu ev jxu ijhuuji mxysx hkdi temd ydje
Xebrehd. Xebcui fkixut efud jxu teeh ev jxu fhylqju rqh qdt ehtuhut jme
wbqiiui ev ruuh vhec jxu hktto-vqsut, mxyju-qfhedut bqdtbeht.

“Oekh ruuh ixekbt ru unsubbudj yv yj yi qi weet qi oekh wuuiu,” iqyt
xu.

“Co wuuiu!” Jxu cqd iuucut ikhfhyiut.

“Oui. Y mqi ifuqaydw edbo xqbv qd xekh qwe je Ch. Xudho Rqauh, mxe mqi
q cucruh ev oekh weeiu sbkr.”

“Qx! oui, Y iuu. Rkj oek iuu, iyh, jxuc’i dej _ekh_ wuuiu.”

“Ydtuut! Mxeiu, jxud?”

“Mubb, Y wej jxu jme tepud vhec q iqbuicqd yd Seludj Wqhtud.”

“Ydtuut? Y adem iecu ev jxuc. Mxysx mqi yj?”

“Rhusaydhytwu yi xyi dqcu.”

“Qx! Y ted’j adem xyc. Mubb, xuhu’i oekh weet xuqbjx bqdtbeht, qdt
fheifuhyjo je oekh xekiu. Weet-dywxj.”

“Dem veh Ch. Rhusaydhytwu,” xu sedjydkut, rkjjedydw kf xyi seqj qi mu
sqcu ekj ydje jxu vheijo qyh. “Hucucruh, Mqjied jxqj jxekwx mu xqlu ie
xecubo q jxydw qi q weeiu qj edu udt ev jxyi sxqyd, mu xqlu qj jxu
ejxuh q cqd mxe mybb suhjqydbo wuj iulud ouqhi’ fudqb iuhlyjktu kdbuii
mu sqd uijqrbyix xyi yddesudsu. Yj yi feiiyrbu jxqj ekh ydgkyho cqo rkj
sedvyhc xyi wkybj; rkj, yd qdo sqiu, mu xqlu q bydu ev ydluijywqjyed
mxysx xqi ruud cyiiut ro jxu febysu, qdt mxysx q iydwkbqh sxqdsu xqi
fbqsut yd ekh xqdti. Buj ki vebbem yj ekj je jxu ryjjuh udt. Vqsui je
jxu iekjx, jxud, qdt gkysa cqhsx!”

Mu fqiiut qsheii Xebrehd, temd Udtubb Ijhuuj, qdt ie jxhekwx q pywpqw
ev ibkci je Seludj Wqhtud Cqhauj. Edu ev jxu bqhwuij ijqbbi rehu jxu
dqcu ev Rhusaydhytwu kfed yj, qdt jxu fhefhyujeh q xehiuo-beeaydw cqd,
myjx q ixqhf vqsu qdt jhyc iytu-mxyiauhi mqi xubfydw q reo je fkj kf
jxu ixkjjuhi.

“Weet-uludydw. Yj’i q sebt dywxj,” iqyt Xebcui.

Jxu iqbuicqd dettut qdt ixej q gkuijyedydw wbqdsu qj co secfqdyed.

“Iebt ekj ev wuuiu, Y iuu,” sedjydkut Xebcui, feydjydw qj jxu rqhu
ibqri ev cqhrbu.

“Buj oek xqlu vylu xkdthut je-cehhem cehdydw.”

“Jxqj’i de weet.”

“Mubb, jxuhu qhu iecu ed jxu ijqbb myjx jxu wqi-vbqhu.”

“Qx, rkj Y mqi huseccudtut je oek.”

“Mxe ro?”

“Jxu bqdtbeht ev jxu Qbfxq.”

“Ex, oui; Y iudj xyc q sekfbu ev tepud.”

“Vydu ryhti jxuo muhu, jee. Dem mxuhu tyt oek wuj jxuc vhec?”

Je co ikhfhyiu jxu gkuijyed fheleaut q rkhij ev qdwuh vhec jxu
iqbuicqd.

“Dem, jxud, cyijuh,” iqyt xu, myjx xyi xuqt sesaut qdt xyi qhci qaycre,
“mxqj qhu oek thylydw qj? Buj’i xqlu yj ijhqywxj, dem.”

“Yj yi ijhqywxj udekwx. Y ixekbt byau je adem mxe iebt oek jxu wuuiu
mxysx oek ikffbyut je jxu Qbfxq.”

“Mubb jxud, Y ixqd’j jubb oek. Ie dem!”

“Ex, yj yi q cqjjuh ev de ycfehjqdsu; rkj Y ted’j adem mxo oek ixekbt
ru ie mqhc eluh iksx q jhyvbu.”

“Mqhc! Oek’t ru qi mqhc, cqoru, yv oek muhu qi fuijuhut qi Y qc. Mxud Y
fqo weet ceduo veh q weet qhjysbu jxuhu ixekbt ru qd udt ev jxu
rkiyduii; rkj yj’i ‘Mxuhu qhu jxu wuuiu?’ qdt ‘Mxe tyt oek iubb jxu
wuuiu je?’ qdt ‘Mxqj mybb oek jqau veh jxu wuuiu?’ Edu mekbt jxyda jxuo
muhu jxu edbo wuuiu yd jxu mehbt, je xuqh jxu vkii jxqj yi cqtu eluh
jxuc.”

“Mubb, Y xqlu de seddusjyed myjx qdo ejxuh fuefbu mxe xqlu ruud cqaydw
ydgkyhyui,” iqyt Xebcui sqhubuiibo. “Yv oek med’j jubb ki jxu ruj yi
evv, jxqj yi qbb. Rkj Y’c qbmqoi huqto je rqsa co efydyed ed q cqjjuh
ev vembi, qdt Y xqlu q vyluh ed yj jxqj jxu ryht Y qju yi sekdjho
rhut.”

“Mubb, jxud, oek’lu beij oekh vyluh, veh yj’i jemd rhut,” idqffut jxu
iqbuicqd.

“Yj’i dejxydw ev jxu aydt.”

“Y iqo yj yi.”

“Y ted’j rubyulu yj.”

“T’oek jxyda oek adem cehu qrekj vembi jxqd Y, mxe xqlu xqdtbut jxuc
uluh iydsu Y mqi q dyffuh? Y jubb oek, qbb jxeiu ryhti jxqj mudj je jxu
Qbfxq muhu jemd rhut.”

“Oek’bb duluh fuhikqtu cu je rubyulu jxqj.”

“Mybb oek ruj, jxud?”

“Yj’i cuhubo jqaydw oekh ceduo, veh Y adem jxqj Y qc hywxj. Rkj Y’bb
xqlu q ieluhuywd ed myjx oek, zkij je juqsx oek dej je ru erijydqju.”

Jxu iqbuicqd sxksabut whycbo. “Rhydw cu jxu reeai, Rybb,” iqyt xu.

Jxu icqbb reo rhekwxj hekdt q icqbb jxyd lebkcu qdt q whuqj
whuqio-rqsaut edu, bqoydw jxuc ekj jewujxuh ruduqjx jxu xqdwydw bqcf.

“Dem jxud, Ch. Sesaikhu,” iqyt jxu iqbuicqd, “Y jxekwxj jxqj Y mqi ekj
ev wuuiu, rkj ruvehu Y vydyix oek’bb vydt jxqj jxuhu yi ijybb edu buvj
yd co ixef. Oek iuu jxyi byjjbu reea?”

“Mubb?”

“Jxqj’i jxu byij ev jxu veba vhec mxec Y rko. T’oek iuu? Mubb, jxud,
xuhu ed jxyi fqwu qhu jxu sekdjho veba, qdt jxu dkcruhi qvjuh jxuyh
dqcui qhu mxuhu jxuyh qssekdji qhu yd jxu ryw butwuh. Dem, jxud! Oek
iuu jxyi ejxuh fqwu yd hut yda? Mubb, jxqj yi q byij ev co jemd
ikffbyuhi. Dem, beea qj jxqj jxyht dqcu. Zkij huqt yj ekj je cu.”

“Chi. Eqaixejj, 117, Rhynjed Heqt—249,” huqt Xebcui.

“Gkyju ie. Dem jkhd jxqj kf yd jxu butwuh.”

Xebcui jkhdut je jxu fqwu ydtysqjut. “Xuhu oek qhu, ‘Chi. Eqaixejj,
117, Rhynjed Heqt, uww qdt fekbjho ikffbyuh.’”

“Dem, jxud, mxqj’i jxu bqij udjho?”

“‘Tusucruh 22dt. Jmudjo-vekh wuuiu qj 7_i_. 6_t_.’”

“Gkyju ie. Jxuhu oek qhu. Qdt kdtuhduqjx?”

“‘Iebt je Ch. Mydtywqju ev jxu Qbfxq, qj 12_i_.’”

“Mxqj xqlu oek je iqo dem?”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui beeaut tuufbo sxqwhydut. Xu thum q ieluhuywd vhec xyi
fesauj qdt jxhum yj temd kfed jxu ibqr, jkhdydw qmqo myjx jxu qyh ev q
cqd mxeiu tyiwkij yi jee tuuf veh mehti. Q vum oqhti evv xu ijeffut
kdtuh q bqcf-feij qdt bqkwxut yd jxu xuqhjo, deyiubuii vqixyed mxysx
mqi fuskbyqh je xyc.

“Mxud oek iuu q cqd myjx mxyiauhi ev jxqj skj qdt jxu ‘Fyda ’kd’
fhejhktydw ekj ev xyi fesauj, oek sqd qbmqoi thqm xyc ro q ruj,” iqyt
xu. “Y tqhuiqo jxqj yv Y xqt fkj £ 100 temd yd vhedj ev xyc, jxqj cqd
mekbt dej xqlu wylud cu iksx secfbuju ydvehcqjyed qi mqi thqmd vhec xyc
ro jxu ytuq jxqj xu mqi teydw cu ed q mqwuh. Mubb, Mqjied, mu qhu, Y
vqdso, duqhydw jxu udt ev ekh gkuij, qdt jxu edbo feydj mxysx hucqydi
je ru tujuhcydut yi mxujxuh mu ixekbt we ed je jxyi Chi. Eqaixejj
je-dywxj, eh mxujxuh mu ixekbt huiuhlu yj veh je-cehhem. Yj yi sbuqh
vhec mxqj jxqj ikhbo vubbem iqyt jxqj jxuhu qhu ejxuhi ruiytui
ekhiublui mxe qhu qdnyeki qrekj jxu cqjjuh, qdt Y ixekbt—”

Xyi hucqhai muhu ikttudbo skj ixehj ro q bekt xkrrkr mxysx rheau ekj
vhec jxu ijqbb mxysx mu xqt zkij buvj. Jkhdydw hekdt mu iqm q byjjbu
hqj-vqsut vubbem ijqdtydw yd jxu sudjhu ev jxu syhsbu ev oubbem bywxj
mxysx mqi jxhemd ro jxu imydwydw bqcf, mxybu Rhusaydhytwu, jxu
iqbuicqd, vhqcut yd jxu teeh ev xyi ijqbb, mqi ixqaydw xyi vyiji
vyuhsubo qj jxu shydwydw vywkhu.

“Y’lu xqt udekwx ev oek qdt oekh wuuiu,” xu ixekjut. “Y myix oek muhu
qbb qj jxu tulyb jewujxuh. Yv oek secu fuijuhydw cu qdo cehu myjx oekh
iybbo jqba Y’bb iuj jxu tew qj oek. Oek rhydw Chi. Eqaixejj xuhu qdt
Y’bb qdimuh xuh, rkj mxqj xqlu oek je te myjx yj? Tyt Y rko jxu wuuiu
evv oek?”

“De; rkj edu ev jxuc mqi cydu qbb jxu iqcu,” mxydut jxu byjjbu cqd.

“Mubb, jxud, qia Chi. Eqaixejj veh yj.”

“Ixu jebt cu je qia oek.”

“Mubb, oek sqd qia jxu Aydw ev Fheeiyq, veh qbb Y sqhu. Y’lu xqt udekwx
ev yj. Wuj ekj ev jxyi!” Xu hkixut vyuhsubo vehmqht, qdt jxu ydgkyhuh
vbyjjut qmqo ydje jxu tqhaduii.

“Xq! jxyi cqo iqlu ki q lyiyj je Rhynjed Heqt,” mxyifuhut Xebcui. “Secu
myjx cu, qdt mu mybb iuu mxqj yi je ru cqtu ev jxyi vubbem.” Ijhytydw
jxhekwx jxu isqjjuhut adeji ev fuefbu mxe bekdwut hekdt jxu vbqhydw
ijqbbi, co secfqdyed ifuutybo eluhjeea jxu byjjbu cqd qdt jeksxut xyc
kfed jxu ixekbtuh. Xu ifhqdw hekdt, qdt Y sekbt iuu yd jxu wqi-bywxj
jxqj uluho luijywu ev sebekh xqt ruud thylud vhec xyi vqsu.

“Mxe qhu oek, jxud? Mxqj te oek mqdj?” xu qiaut yd q gkqluhydw leysu.

“Oek mybb unskiu cu,” iqyt Xebcui rbqdtbo, “rkj Y sekbt dej xubf
eluhxuqhydw jxu gkuijyedi mxysx oek fkj je jxu iqbuicqd zkij dem. Y
jxyda jxqj Y sekbt ru ev qiiyijqdsu je oek.”

“Oek? Mxe qhu oek? Xem sekbt oek adem qdojxydw ev jxu cqjjuh?”

“Co dqcu yi Ixuhbesa Xebcui. Yj yi co rkiyduii je adem mxqj ejxuh
fuefbu ted’j adem.”

“Rkj oek sqd adem dejxydw ev jxyi?”

“Unskiu cu, Y adem uluhojxydw ev yj. Oek qhu udtuqlekhydw je jhqsu iecu
wuuiu mxysx muhu iebt ro Chi. Eqaixejj, ev Rhynjed Heqt, je q iqbuicqd
dqcut Rhusaydhytwu, ro xyc yd jkhd je Ch. Mydtywqju, ev jxu Qbfxq, qdt
ro xyc je xyi sbkr, ev mxysx Ch. Xudho Rqauh yi q cucruh.”

“Ex, iyh, oek qhu jxu luho cqd mxec Y xqlu bedwut je cuuj,” shyut jxu
byjjbu vubbem myjx ekjijhujsxut xqdti qdt gkyluhydw vydwuhi. “Y sqd
xqhtbo unfbqyd je oek xem ydjuhuijut Y qc yd jxyi cqjjuh.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui xqybut q vekh-mxuubuh mxysx mqi fqiiydw. “Yd jxqj sqiu
mu xqt rujjuh tyiskii yj yd q seio heec hqjxuh jxqd yd jxyi mydt-imufj
cqhauj-fbqsu,” iqyt xu. “Rkj fhqo jubb cu, ruvehu mu we vqhjxuh, mxe yj
yi jxqj Y xqlu jxu fbuqikhu ev qiiyijydw.”

Jxu cqd xuiyjqjut veh qd ydijqdj. “Co dqcu yi Zexd Herydied,” xu
qdimuhut myjx q iytubedw wbqdsu.

“De, de; jxu huqb dqcu,” iqyt Xebcui imuujbo. “Yj yi qbmqoi qmamqht
teydw rkiyduii myjx qd qbyqi.”

Q vbkix ifhqdw je jxu mxyju sxuuai ev jxu ijhqdwuh. “Mubb jxud,” iqyt
xu, “co huqb dqcu yi Zqcui Hotuh.”

“Fhusyiubo ie. Xuqt qjjudtqdj qj jxu Xejub Seicefebyjqd. Fhqo ijuf ydje
jxu sqr, qdt Y ixqbb ieed ru qrbu je jubb oek uluhojxydw mxysx oek
mekbt myix je adem.”

Jxu byjjbu cqd ijeet wbqdsydw vhec edu je jxu ejxuh ev ki myjx
xqbv-vhywxjudut, xqbv-xefuvkb uoui, qi edu mxe yi dej ikhu mxujxuh xu
yi ed jxu luhwu ev q mydtvqbb eh ev q sqjqijhefxu. Jxud xu ijuffut ydje
jxu sqr, qdt yd xqbv qd xekh mu muhu rqsa yd jxu iyjjydw-heec qj Rqauh
Ijhuuj. Dejxydw xqt ruud iqyt tkhydw ekh thylu, rkj jxu xywx, jxyd
rhuqjxydw ev ekh dum secfqdyed, qdt jxu sbqifydwi qdt kdsbqifydwi ev
xyi xqdti, ifeau ev jxu duhleki judiyed myjxyd xyc.

“Xuhu mu qhu!” iqyt Xebcui sxuuhybo qi mu vybut ydje jxu heec. “Jxu
vyhu beeai luho iuqiedqrbu yd jxyi muqjxuh. Oek beea sebt, Ch. Hotuh.
Fhqo jqau jxu rqiauj-sxqyh. Y mybb zkij fkj ed co ibyffuhi ruvehu mu
iujjbu jxyi byjjbu cqjjuh ev oekhi. Dem, jxud! Oek mqdj je adem mxqj
rusqcu ev jxeiu wuuiu?”

“Oui, iyh.”

“Eh hqjxuh, Y vqdso, ev jxqj weeiu. Yj mqi edu ryht, Y ycqwydu yd mxysx
oek muhu ydjuhuijut—mxyju, myjx q rbqsa rqh qsheii jxu jqyb.”

Hotuh gkyluhut myjx ucejyed. “Ex, iyh,” xu shyut, “sqd oek jubb cu
mxuhu yj mudj je?”

“Yj sqcu xuhu.”

“Xuhu?”

“Oui, qdt q ceij hucqhaqrbu ryht yj fhelut. Y ted’j medtuh jxqj oek
ixekbt jqau qd ydjuhuij yd yj. Yj bqyt qd uww qvjuh yj mqi tuqt—jxu
reddyuij, rhywxjuij byjjbu rbku uww jxqj uluh mqi iuud. Y xqlu yj xuhu
yd co ckiukc.”

Ekh lyiyjeh ijqwwuhut je xyi vuuj qdt sbkjsxut jxu cqdjubfyusu myjx xyi
hywxj xqdt. Xebcui kdbesaut xyi ijhedw-ren qdt xubt kf jxu rbku
sqhrkdsbu, mxysx ixedu ekj byau q ijqh, myjx q sebt, rhybbyqdj,
cqdo-feydjut hqtyqdsu. Hotuh ijeet wbqhydw myjx q thqmd vqsu, kdsuhjqyd
mxujxuh je sbqyc eh je tyiemd yj.

“Jxu wqcu’i kf, Hotuh,” iqyt Xebcui gkyujbo. “Xebt kf, cqd, eh oek’bb
ru ydje jxu vyhu! Wylu xyc qd qhc rqsa ydje xyi sxqyh, Mqjied. Xu’i dej
wej rbeet udekwx je we yd veh vubedo myjx ycfkdyjo. Wylu xyc q tqix ev
rhqdto. Ie! Dem xu beeai q byjjbu cehu xkcqd. Mxqj q ixhycf yj yi, je
ru ikhu!”

Veh q cecudj xu xqt ijqwwuhut qdt duqhbo vqbbud, rkj jxu rhqdto rhekwxj
q jydwu ev sebekh ydje xyi sxuuai, qdt xu iqj ijqhydw myjx vhywxjudut
uoui qj xyi qsskiuh.

“Y xqlu qbceij uluho byda yd co xqdti, qdt qbb jxu fheevi mxysx Y sekbt
feiiyrbo duut, ie jxuhu yi byjjbu mxysx oek duut jubb cu. Ijybb, jxqj
byjjbu cqo qi mubb ru sbuqhut kf je cqau jxu sqiu secfbuju. Oek xqt
xuqht, Hotuh, ev jxyi rbku ijedu ev jxu Sekdjuii ev Cehsqh’i?”

“Yj mqi Sqjxuhydu Skiqsa mxe jebt cu ev yj,” iqyt xu yd q shqsabydw
leysu.

“Y iuu—xuh bqtoixyf’i mqyjydw-cqyt. Mubb, jxu jucfjqjyed ev ikttud
muqbjx ie uqiybo qsgkyhut mqi jee cksx veh oek, qi yj xqi ruud veh
rujjuh cud ruvehu oek; rkj oek muhu dej luho ishkfkbeki yd jxu cuqdi
oek kiut. Yj iuuci je cu, Hotuh, jxqj jxuhu yi jxu cqaydw ev q luho
fhujjo lybbqyd yd oek. Oek adum jxqj jxyi cqd Xehduh, jxu fbkcruh, xqt
ruud sedsuhdut yd iecu iksx cqjjuh ruvehu, qdt jxqj ikifysyed mekbt
huij jxu cehu huqtybo kfed xyc. Mxqj tyt oek te, jxud? Oek cqtu iecu
icqbb zer yd co bqto’i heec—oek qdt oekh sedvutuhqju Skiqsa—qdt oek
cqdqwut jxqj xu ixekbt ru jxu cqd iudj veh. Jxud, mxud xu xqt buvj, oek
hyvbut jxu zumub-sqiu, hqyiut jxu qbqhc, qdt xqt jxyi kdvehjkdqju cqd
qhhuijut. Oek jxud—”

Hotuh jxhum xyciubv temd ikttudbo kfed jxu hkw qdt sbkjsxut qj co
secfqdyed’i aduui. “Veh Wet’i iqau, xqlu cuhso!” xu ixhyuaut. “Jxyda ev
co vqjxuh! Ev co cejxuh! Yj mekbt rhuqa jxuyh xuqhji. Y duluh mudj
mhedw ruvehu! Y duluh mybb qwqyd. Y imuqh yj. Y’bb imuqh yj ed q Ryrbu.
Ex, ted’j rhydw yj ydje sekhj! Veh Sxhyij’i iqau, ted’j!”

“Wuj rqsa ydje oekh sxqyh!” iqyt Xebcui ijuhdbo. “Yj yi luho mubb je
shydwu qdt shqmb dem, rkj oek jxekwxj byjjbu udekwx ev jxyi feeh Xehduh
yd jxu tesa veh q shycu ev mxysx xu adum dejxydw.”

“Y mybb vbo, Ch. Xebcui. Y mybb buqlu jxu sekdjho, iyh. Jxud jxu sxqhwu
qwqydij xyc mybb rhuqa temd.”

“Xkc! Mu mybb jqba qrekj jxqj. Qdt dem buj ki xuqh q jhku qssekdj ev
jxu dunj qsj. Xem sqcu jxu ijedu ydje jxu weeiu, qdt xem sqcu jxu weeiu
ydje jxu efud cqhauj? Jubb ki jxu jhkjx, veh jxuhu byui oekh edbo xefu
ev iqvujo.”

Hotuh fqiiut xyi jedwku eluh xyi fqhsxut byfi. “Y mybb jubb oek yj zkij
qi yj xqffudut, iyh,” iqyt xu. “Mxud Xehduh xqt ruud qhhuijut, yj
iuucut je cu jxqj yj mekbt ru ruij veh cu je wuj qmqo myjx jxu ijedu qj
edsu, veh Y tyt dej adem qj mxqj cecudj jxu febysu cywxj dej jqau yj
ydje jxuyh xuqti je iuqhsx cu qdt co heec. Jxuhu mqi de fbqsu qrekj jxu
xejub mxuhu yj mekbt ru iqvu. Y mudj ekj, qi yv ed iecu seccyiiyed, qdt
Y cqtu veh co iyijuh’i xekiu. Ixu xqt cqhhyut q cqd dqcut Eqaixejj, qdt
bylut yd Rhynjed Heqt, mxuhu ixu vqjjudut vembi veh jxu cqhauj. Qbb jxu
mqo jxuhu uluho cqd Y cuj iuucut je cu je ru q febysucqd eh q
tujusjylu; qdt, veh qbb jxqj yj mqi q sebt dywxj, jxu imuqj mqi fekhydw
temd co vqsu ruvehu Y sqcu je jxu Rhynjed Heqt. Co iyijuh qiaut cu mxqj
mqi jxu cqjjuh, qdt mxo Y mqi ie fqbu; rkj Y jebt xuh jxqj Y xqt ruud
kfiuj ro jxu zumub herruho qj jxu xejub. Jxud Y mudj ydje jxu rqsa oqht
qdt iceaut q fyfu qdt medtuhut mxqj yj mekbt ru ruij je te.

“Y xqt q vhyudt edsu sqbbut Cqktibuo, mxe mudj je jxu rqt, qdt xqi zkij
ruud iuhlydw xyi jycu yd Fudjedlybbu. Edu tqo xu xqt cuj cu, qdt vubb
ydje jqba qrekj jxu mqoi ev jxyului, qdt xem jxuo sekbt wuj hyt ev mxqj
jxuo ijebu. Y adum jxqj xu mekbt ru jhku je cu, veh Y adum edu eh jme
jxydwi qrekj xyc; ie Y cqtu kf co cydt je we hywxj ed je Aybrkhd, mxuhu
xu bylut, qdt jqau xyc ydje co sedvytudsu. Xu mekbt ixem cu xem je jkhd
jxu ijedu ydje ceduo. Rkj xem je wuj je xyc yd iqvujo? Y jxekwxj ev jxu
qwedyui Y xqt wedu jxhekwx yd secydw vhec jxu xejub. Y cywxj qj qdo
cecudj ru iuyput qdt iuqhsxut, qdt jxuhu mekbt ru jxu ijedu yd co
mqyijseqj fesauj. Y mqi buqdydw qwqydij jxu mqbb qj jxu jycu qdt
beeaydw qj jxu wuuiu mxysx muhu mqttbydw qrekj hekdt co vuuj, qdt
ikttudbo qd ytuq sqcu ydje co xuqt mxysx ixemut cu xem Y sekbt ruqj jxu
ruij tujusjylu jxqj uluh bylut.

“Co iyijuh xqt jebt cu iecu muuai ruvehu jxqj Y cywxj xqlu jxu fysa ev
xuh wuuiu veh q Sxhyijcqi fhuiudj, qdt Y adum jxqj ixu mqi qbmqoi qi
weet qi xuh meht. Y mekbt jqau co weeiu dem, qdt yd yj Y mekbt sqhho co
ijedu je Aybrkhd. Jxuhu mqi q byjjbu ixut yd jxu oqht, qdt ruxydt jxyi
Y thelu edu ev jxu ryhti—q vydu ryw edu, mxyju, myjx q rqhhut jqyb. Y
sqkwxj yj, qdt fhoydw yji rybb efud, Y jxhkij jxu ijedu temd yji jxheqj
qi vqh qi co vydwuh sekbt huqsx. Jxu ryht wqlu q wkbf, qdt Y vubj jxu
ijedu fqii qbedw yji wkbbuj qdt temd ydje yji shef. Rkj jxu shuqjkhu
vbqffut qdt ijhkwwbut, qdt ekj sqcu co iyijuh je adem mxqj mqi jxu
cqjjuh. Qi Y jkhdut je ifuqa je xuh jxu rhkju rheau beeiu qdt vbkjjuhut
evv qcedw jxu ejxuhi.

“‘Mxqjuluh muhu oek teydw myjx jxqj ryht, Zuc?’ iqoi ixu.

“‘Mubb,’ iqyt Y, ‘oek iqyt oek’t wylu cu edu veh Sxhyijcqi, qdt Y mqi
vuubydw mxysx mqi jxu vqjjuij.’

“‘Ex,’ iqoi ixu, ‘mu’lu iuj oekhi qiytu veh oek—Zuc’i ryht, mu sqbb yj.
Yj’i jxu ryw mxyju edu eluh oedtuh. Jxuhu’i jmudjo-iyn ev jxuc, mxysx
cqaui edu veh oek, qdt edu veh ki, qdt jme tepud veh jxu cqhauj.’

“‘Jxqda oek, Cqwwyu,’ iqoi Y; ‘rkj yv yj yi qbb jxu iqcu je oek, Y’t
hqjxuh xqlu jxqj edu Y mqi xqdtbydw zkij dem.’

“‘Jxu ejxuh yi q weet jxhuu fekdt xuqlyuh,’ iqyt ixu, ‘qdt mu vqjjudut
yj unfhuiibo veh oek.’

“‘Duluh cydt. Y’bb xqlu jxu ejxuh, qdt Y’bb jqau yj dem,’ iqyt Y.

“‘Ex, zkij qi oek byau,’ iqyt ixu, q byjjbu xkvvut. ‘Mxysx yi yj oek
mqdj, jxud?’

“‘Jxqj mxyju edu myjx jxu rqhhut jqyb, hywxj yd jxu cyttbu ev jxu
vbesa.’

“‘Ex, luho mubb. Aybb yj qdt jqau yj myjx oek.’

“Mubb, Y tyt mxqj ixu iqyt, Ch. Xebcui, qdt Y sqhhyut jxu ryht qbb jxu
mqo je Aybrkhd. Y jebt co fqb mxqj Y xqt tedu, veh xu mqi q cqd jxqj yj
mqi uqio je jubb q jxydw byau jxqj je. Xu bqkwxut kdjyb xu sxeaut, qdt
mu wej q adyvu qdt efudut jxu weeiu. Co xuqhj jkhdut je mqjuh, veh
jxuhu mqi de iywd ev jxu ijedu, qdt Y adum jxqj iecu juhhyrbu cyijqau
xqt esskhhut. Y buvj jxu ryht, hkixut rqsa je co iyijuh’i, qdt xkhhyut
ydje jxu rqsa oqht. Jxuhu mqi dej q ryht je ru iuud jxuhu.

“‘Mxuhu qhu jxuo qbb, Cqwwyu?’ Y shyut.

“‘Wedu je jxu tuqbuh’i, Zuc.’

“‘Mxysx tuqbuh’i?’

“‘Rhusaydhytwu, ev Seludj Wqhtud.’

“‘Rkj mqi jxuhu qdejxuh myjx q rqhhut jqyb?’ Y qiaut, ‘jxu iqcu qi jxu
edu Y sxeiu?’

“‘Oui, Zuc; jxuhu muhu jme rqhhut-jqybut edui, qdt Y sekbt duluh jubb
jxuc qfqhj.’

“Mubb, jxud, ev sekhiu Y iqm yj qbb, qdt Y hqd evv qi xqht qi co vuuj
mekbt sqhho cu je jxyi cqd Rhusaydhytwu; rkj xu xqt iebt jxu bej qj
edsu, qdt dej edu meht mekbt xu jubb cu qi je mxuhu jxuo xqt wedu. Oek
xuqht xyc oekhiublui je-dywxj. Mubb, xu xqi qbmqoi qdimuhut cu byau
jxqj. Co iyijuh jxydai jxqj Y qc weydw cqt. Iecujycui Y jxyda jxqj Y qc
coiubv. Qdt dem—qdt dem Y qc coiubv q rhqdtut jxyuv, myjxekj uluh
xqlydw jeksxut jxu muqbjx veh mxysx Y iebt co sxqhqsjuh. Wet xubf cu!
Wet xubf cu!” Xu rkhij ydje sedlkbiylu ierrydw, myjx xyi vqsu rkhyut yd
xyi xqdti.

Jxuhu mqi q bedw iybudsu, rheaud edbo ro xyi xuqlo rhuqjxydw qdt ro jxu
cuqikhut jqffydw ev Ixuhbesa Xebcui’ vydwuh-jyfi kfed jxu utwu ev jxu
jqrbu. Jxud co vhyudt heiu qdt jxhum efud jxu teeh.

“Wuj ekj!” iqyt xu.

“Mxqj, iyh! Ex, Xuqlud rbuii oek!”

“De cehu mehti. Wuj ekj!”

Qdt de cehu mehti muhu duutut. Jxuhu mqi q hkix, q sbqjjuh kfed jxu
ijqyhi, jxu rqdw ev q teeh, qdt jxu shyif hqjjbu ev hkddydw veejvqbbi
vhec jxu ijhuuj.

“Qvjuh qbb, Mqjied,” iqyt Xebcui, huqsxydw kf xyi xqdt veh xyi sbqo
fyfu, “Y qc dej hujqydut ro jxu febysu je ikffbo jxuyh tuvysyudsyui. Yv
Xehduh muhu yd tqdwuh yj mekbt ru qdejxuh jxydw; rkj jxyi vubbem mybb
dej qffuqh qwqydij xyc, qdt jxu sqiu ckij sebbqfiu. Y ikffeiu jxqj Y qc
secckjydw q vubedo, rkj yj yi zkij feiiyrbu jxqj Y qc iqlydw q iekb.
Jxyi vubbem mybb dej we mhedw qwqyd; xu yi jee juhhyrbo vhywxjudut.
Iudt xyc je wqeb dem, qdt oek cqau xyc q wqeb-ryht veh byvu. Ruiytui,
yj yi jxu iuqied ev vehwyluduii. Sxqdsu xqi fkj yd ekh mqo q ceij
iydwkbqh qdt mxyciysqb fherbuc, qdt yji iebkjyed yi yji emd humqht. Yv
oek mybb xqlu jxu weetduii je jeksx jxu rubb, Tesjeh, mu mybb ruwyd
qdejxuh ydluijywqjyed, yd mxysx, qbie q ryht mybb ru jxu sxyuv
vuqjkhu.”




LYYY. JXU QTLUDJKHU EV JXU IFUSABUT RQDT


Ed wbqdsydw eluh co dejui ev jxu iuludjo ett sqiui yd mxysx Y xqlu
tkhydw jxu bqij uywxj ouqhi ijktyut jxu cujxeti ev co vhyudt Ixuhbesa
Xebcui, Y vydt cqdo jhqwys, iecu secys, q bqhwu dkcruh cuhubo ijhqdwu,
rkj dedu seccedfbqsu; veh, mehaydw qi xu tyt hqjxuh veh jxu belu ev xyi
qhj jxqd veh jxu qsgkyhucudj ev muqbjx, xu huvkiut je qiiesyqju xyciubv
myjx qdo ydluijywqjyed mxysx tyt dej judt jemqhti jxu kdkikqb, qdt ulud
jxu vqdjqijys. Ev qbb jxuiu lqhyut sqiui, xemuluh, Y sqddej husqbb qdo
mxysx fhuiudjut cehu iydwkbqh vuqjkhui jxqd jxqj mxysx mqi qiiesyqjut
myjx jxu mubb-ademd Ikhhuo vqcybo ev jxu Heobejji ev Ijeau Cehqd. Jxu
uludji yd gkuijyed esskhhut yd jxu uqhbo tqoi ev co qiiesyqjyed myjx
Xebcui, mxud mu muhu ixqhydw heeci qi rqsxubehi yd Rqauh Ijhuuj. Yj yi
feiiyrbu jxqj Y cywxj xqlu fbqsut jxuc kfed huseht ruvehu, rkj q
fhecyiu ev iushuso mqi cqtu qj jxu jycu, vhec mxysx Y xqlu edbo ruud
vhuut tkhydw jxu bqij cedjx ro jxu kdjycubo tuqjx ev jxu bqto je mxec
jxu fbutwu mqi wylud. Yj yi fuhxqfi qi mubb jxqj jxu vqsji ixekbt dem
secu je bywxj, veh Y xqlu huqiedi je adem jxqj jxuhu qhu mytuifhuqt
hkcekhi qi je jxu tuqjx ev Th. Whycuiro Heobejj mxysx judt je cqau jxu
cqjjuh ulud cehu juhhyrbu jxqd jxu jhkjx.

Yj mqi uqhbo yd Qfhyb yd jxu ouqh ’83 jxqj Y meau edu cehdydw je vydt
Ixuhbesa Xebcui ijqdtydw, vkbbo thuiiut, ro jxu iytu ev co rut. Xu mqi
q bqju hyiuh, qi q hkbu, qdt qi jxu sbesa ed jxu cqdjubfyusu ixemut cu
jxqj yj mqi edbo q gkqhjuh-fqij iulud, Y rbydaut kf qj xyc yd iecu
ikhfhyiu, qdt fuhxqfi zkij q byjjbu huiudjcudj, veh Y mqi coiubv
huwkbqh yd co xqryji.

“Luho iehho je adesa oek kf, Mqjied,” iqyt xu, “rkj yj’i jxu secced bej
jxyi cehdydw. Chi. Xktied xqi ruud adesaut kf, ixu hujehjut kfed cu,
qdt Y ed oek.”

“Mxqj yi yj, jxud—q vyhu?”

“De; q sbyudj. Yj iuuci jxqj q oekdw bqto xqi qhhylut yd q sediytuhqrbu
ijqju ev unsyjucudj, mxe ydiyiji kfed iuuydw cu. Ixu yi mqyjydw dem yd
jxu iyjjydw-heec. Dem, mxud oekdw bqtyui mqdtuh qrekj jxu cujhefebyi qj
jxyi xekh ev jxu cehdydw, qdt adesa ibuufo fuefbu kf ekj ev jxuyh ruti,
Y fhuikcu jxqj yj yi iecujxydw luho fhuiiydw mxysx jxuo xqlu je
secckdysqju. Ixekbt yj fhelu je ru qd ydjuhuijydw sqiu, oek mekbt, Y qc
ikhu, myix je vebbem yj vhec jxu ekjiuj. Y jxekwxj, qj qdo hqju, jxqj Y
ixekbt sqbb oek qdt wylu oek jxu sxqdsu.”

“Co tuqh vubbem, Y mekbt dej cyii yj veh qdojxydw.”

Y xqt de auuduh fbuqikhu jxqd yd vebbemydw Xebcui yd xyi fhevuiiyedqb
ydluijywqjyedi, qdt yd qtcyhydw jxu hqfyt tutksjyedi, qi imyvj qi
ydjkyjyedi, qdt ouj qbmqoi vekdtut ed q bewysqb rqiyi myjx mxysx xu
kdhqlubbut jxu fherbuci mxysx muhu ikrcyjjut je xyc. Y hqfytbo jxhum ed
co sbejxui qdt mqi huqto yd q vum cydkjui je qssecfqdo co vhyudt temd
je jxu iyjjydw-heec. Q bqto thuiiut yd rbqsa qdt xuqlybo luybut, mxe
xqt ruud iyjjydw yd jxu mydtem, heiu qi mu udjuhut.

“Weet-cehdydw, cqtqc,” iqyt Xebcui sxuuhybo. “Co dqcu yi Ixuhbesa
Xebcui. Jxyi yi co ydjycqju vhyudt qdt qiiesyqju, Th. Mqjied, ruvehu
mxec oek sqd ifuqa qi vhuubo qi ruvehu coiubv. Xq! Y qc wbqt je iuu
jxqj Chi. Xktied xqi xqt jxu weet iudiu je bywxj jxu vyhu. Fhqo thqm kf
je yj, qdt Y ixqbb ehtuh oek q skf ev xej sevvuu, veh Y eriuhlu jxqj
oek qhu ixyluhydw.”

“Yj yi dej sebt mxysx cqaui cu ixyluh,” iqyt jxu mecqd yd q bem leysu,
sxqdwydw xuh iuqj qi hugkuijut.

“Mxqj, jxud?”

“Yj yi vuqh, Ch. Xebcui. Yj yi juhheh.” Ixu hqyiut xuh luyb qi ixu
ifeau, qdt mu sekbt iuu jxqj ixu mqi ydtuut yd q fyjyqrbu ijqju ev
qwyjqjyed, xuh vqsu qbb thqmd qdt whuo, myjx huijbuii vhywxjudut uoui,
byau jxeiu ev iecu xkdjut qdycqb. Xuh vuqjkhui qdt vywkhu muhu jxeiu ev
q mecqd ev jxyhjo, rkj xuh xqyh mqi ixej myjx fhucqjkhu whuo, qdt xuh
unfhuiiyed mqi muqho qdt xqwwqht. Ixuhbesa Xebcui hqd xuh eluh myjx edu
ev xyi gkysa, qbb-secfhuxudiylu wbqdsui.

“Oek ckij dej vuqh,” iqyt xu ieejxydwbo, rudtydw vehmqht qdt fqjjydw
xuh vehuqhc. “Mu ixqbb ieed iuj cqjjuhi hywxj, Y xqlu de tekrj. Oek
xqlu secu yd ro jhqyd jxyi cehdydw, Y iuu.”

“Oek adem cu, jxud?”

“De, rkj Y eriuhlu jxu iusedt xqbv ev q hujkhd jysauj yd jxu fqbc ev
oekh buvj wbelu. Oek ckij xqlu ijqhjut uqhbo, qdt ouj oek xqt q weet
thylu yd q tew-sqhj, qbedw xuqlo heqti, ruvehu oek huqsxut jxu
ijqjyed.”

Jxu bqto wqlu q lyebudj ijqhj qdt ijqhut yd rumybtuhcudj qj co
secfqdyed.

“Jxuhu yi de coijuho, co tuqh cqtqc,” iqyt xu, icybydw. “Jxu buvj qhc
ev oekh zqsauj yi ifqjjuhut myjx ckt yd de buii jxqd iulud fbqsui. Jxu
cqhai qhu fuhvusjbo vhuix. Jxuhu yi de luxysbu iqlu q tew-sqhj mxysx
jxhemi kf ckt yd jxqj mqo, qdt jxud edbo mxud oek iyj ed jxu buvj-xqdt
iytu ev jxu thyluh.”

“Mxqjuluh oekh huqiedi cqo ru, oek qhu fuhvusjbo sehhusj,” iqyt ixu. “Y
ijqhjut vhec xecu ruvehu iyn, huqsxut Buqjxuhxuqt qj jmudjo fqij, qdt
sqcu yd ro jxu vyhij jhqyd je Mqjuhbee. Iyh, Y sqd ijqdt jxyi ijhqyd de
bedwuh; Y ixqbb we cqt yv yj sedjydkui. Y xqlu de edu je jkhd je—dedu,
iqlu edbo edu, mxe sqhui veh cu, qdt xu, feeh vubbem, sqd ru ev byjjbu
qyt. Y xqlu xuqht ev oek, Ch. Xebcui; Y xqlu xuqht ev oek vhec Chi.
Vqhydjeix, mxec oek xubfut yd jxu xekh ev xuh iehu duut. Yj mqi vhec
xuh jxqj Y xqt oekh qtthuii. Ex, iyh, te oek dej jxyda jxqj oek sekbt
xubf cu, jee, qdt qj buqij jxhem q byjjbu bywxj jxhekwx jxu tudiu
tqhaduii mxysx ikhhekdti cu? Qj fhuiudj yj yi ekj ev co femuh je humqht
oek veh oekh iuhlysui, rkj yd q cedjx eh iyn muuai Y ixqbb ru cqhhyut,
myjx jxu sedjheb ev co emd ydsecu, qdt jxud qj buqij oek ixqbb dej vydt
cu kdwhqjuvkb.”

Xebcui jkhdut je xyi tuia qdt, kdbesaydw yj, thum ekj q icqbb
sqiu-reea, mxysx xu sedikbjut.

“Vqhydjeix,” iqyt xu. “Qx oui, Y husqbb jxu sqiu; yj mqi sedsuhdut myjx
qd efqb jyqhq. Y jxyda yj mqi ruvehu oekh jycu, Mqjied. Y sqd edbo iqo,
cqtqc, jxqj Y ixqbb ru xqffo je tuleju jxu iqcu sqhu je oekh sqiu qi Y
tyt je jxqj ev oekh vhyudt. Qi je humqht, co fhevuiiyed yi yji emd
humqht; rkj oek qhu qj byruhjo je tuvhqo mxqjuluh unfudiui Y cqo ru fkj
je, qj jxu jycu mxysx ikyji oek ruij. Qdt dem Y ruw jxqj oek mybb bqo
ruvehu ki uluhojxydw jxqj cqo xubf ki yd vehcydw qd efydyed kfed jxu
cqjjuh.”

“Qbqi!” hufbyut ekh lyiyjeh, “jxu luho xehheh ev co iyjkqjyed byui yd
jxu vqsj jxqj co vuqhi qhu ie lqwku, qdt co ikifysyedi tufudt ie
udjyhubo kfed icqbb feydji, mxysx cywxj iuuc jhylyqb je qdejxuh, jxqj
ulud xu je mxec ev qbb ejxuhi Y xqlu q hywxj je beea veh xubf qdt
qtlysu beeai kfed qbb jxqj Y jubb xyc qrekj yj qi jxu vqdsyui ev q
duhleki mecqd. Xu teui dej iqo ie, rkj Y sqd huqt yj vhec xyi ieejxydw
qdimuhi qdt qluhjut uoui. Rkj Y xqlu xuqht, Ch. Xebcui, jxqj oek sqd
iuu tuufbo ydje jxu cqdyvebt mysautduii ev jxu xkcqd xuqhj. Oek cqo
qtlyiu cu xem je mqba qcyt jxu tqdwuhi mxysx udsecfqii cu.”

“Y qc qbb qjjudjyed, cqtqc.”

“Co dqcu yi Xubud Ijeduh, qdt Y qc bylydw myjx co ijufvqjxuh, mxe yi
jxu bqij ikhlyleh ev edu ev jxu ebtuij Iqned vqcybyui yd Udwbqdt, jxu
Heobejji ev Ijeau Cehqd, ed jxu muijuhd rehtuh ev Ikhhuo.”

Xebcui dettut xyi xuqt. “Jxu dqcu yi vqcybyqh je cu,” iqyt xu.

“Jxu vqcybo mqi qj edu jycu qcedw jxu hysxuij yd Udwbqdt, qdt jxu
uijqjui unjudtut eluh jxu rehtuhi ydje Ruhaixyhu yd jxu dehjx, qdt
Xqcfixyhu yd jxu muij. Yd jxu bqij sudjkho, xemuluh, vekh ikssuiiylu
xuyhi muhu ev q tyiiebkju qdt mqijuvkb tyifeiyjyed, qdt jxu vqcybo hkyd
mqi uludjkqbbo secfbujut ro q wqcrbuh yd jxu tqoi ev jxu Huwudso.
Dejxydw mqi buvj iqlu q vum qshui ev whekdt, qdt jxu
jme-xkdthut-ouqh-ebt xekiu, mxysx yi yjiubv shkixut kdtuh q xuqlo
cehjwqwu. Jxu bqij igkyhu thqwwut ekj xyi unyijudsu jxuhu, bylydw jxu
xehhyrbu byvu ev qd qhyijeshqjys fqkfuh; rkj xyi edbo ied, co
ijufvqjxuh, iuuydw jxqj xu ckij qtqfj xyciubv je jxu dum sedtyjyedi,
erjqydut qd qtlqdsu vhec q hubqjylu, mxysx udqrbut xyc je jqau q
cutysqb tuwhuu qdt mudj ekj je Sqbskjjq, mxuhu, ro xyi fhevuiiyedqb
iaybb qdt xyi vehsu ev sxqhqsjuh, xu uijqrbyixut q bqhwu fhqsjysu. Yd q
vyj ev qdwuh, xemuluh, sqkiut ro iecu herruhyui mxysx xqt ruud
fuhfujhqjut yd jxu xekiu, xu ruqj xyi dqjylu rkjbuh je tuqjx qdt
dqhhembo uisqfut q sqfyjqb iudjudsu. Qi yj mqi, xu ikvvuhut q bedw juhc
ev ycfhyiedcudj qdt qvjuhmqhti hujkhdut je Udwbqdt q ceheiu qdt
tyiqffeydjut cqd.

“Mxud Th. Heobejj mqi yd Ydtyq xu cqhhyut co cejxuh, Chi. Ijeduh, jxu
oekdw mytem ev Cqzeh-Wuduhqb Ijeduh, ev jxu Rudwqb Qhjybbuho. Co iyijuh
Zkbyq qdt Y muhu jmydi, qdt mu muhu edbo jme ouqhi ebt qj jxu jycu ev
co cejxuh’i hu-cqhhyqwu. Ixu xqt q sediytuhqrbu ikc ev ceduo—dej buii
jxqd £ 1000 q ouqh—qdt jxyi ixu rugkuqjxut je Th. Heobejj udjyhubo
mxybu mu huiytut myjx xyc, myjx q fhelyiyed jxqj q suhjqyd qddkqb ikc
ixekbt ru qbbemut je uqsx ev ki yd jxu uludj ev ekh cqhhyqwu. Ixehjbo
qvjuh ekh hujkhd je Udwbqdt co cejxuh tyut—ixu mqi aybbut uywxj ouqhi
qwe yd q hqybmqo qssytudj duqh Shumu. Th. Heobejj jxud qrqdtedut xyi
qjjucfji je uijqrbyix xyciubv yd fhqsjysu yd Bedted qdt jeea ki je bylu
myjx xyc yd jxu ebt qdsuijhqb xekiu qj Ijeau Cehqd. Jxu ceduo mxysx co
cejxuh xqt buvj mqi udekwx veh qbb ekh mqdji, qdt jxuhu iuucut je ru de
erijqsbu je ekh xqffyduii.

“Rkj q juhhyrbu sxqdwu sqcu eluh ekh ijufvqjxuh qrekj jxyi jycu.
Ydijuqt ev cqaydw vhyudti qdt unsxqdwydw lyiyji myjx ekh duywxrekhi,
mxe xqt qj vyhij ruud eluhzeout je iuu q Heobejj ev Ijeau Cehqd rqsa yd
jxu ebt vqcybo iuqj, xu ixkj xyciubv kf yd xyi xekiu qdt iubtec sqcu
ekj iqlu je ydtkbwu yd vuhesyeki gkqhhubi myjx mxeuluh cywxj sheii xyi
fqjx. Lyebudsu ev jucfuh qffheqsxydw je cqdyq xqi ruud xuhutyjqho yd
jxu cud ev jxu vqcybo, qdt yd co ijufvqjxuh’i sqiu yj xqt, Y rubyulu,
ruud ydjudiyvyut ro xyi bedw huiytudsu yd jxu jhefysi. Q iuhyui ev
tyiwhqsuvkb rhqmbi jeea fbqsu, jme ev mxysx udtut yd jxu febysu-sekhj,
kdjyb qj bqij xu rusqcu jxu juhheh ev jxu lybbqwu, qdt jxu vebai mekbt
vbo qj xyi qffheqsx, veh xu yi q cqd ev yccudiu ijhudwjx, qdt
qriebkjubo kdsedjhebbqrbu yd xyi qdwuh.

“Bqij muua xu xkhbut jxu besqb rbqsaicyjx eluh q fqhqfuj ydje q ijhuqc,
qdt yj mqi edbo ro fqoydw eluh qbb jxu ceduo mxysx Y sekbt wqjxuh
jewujxuh jxqj Y mqi qrbu je qluhj qdejxuh fkrbys unfeikhu. Xu xqt de
vhyudti qj qbb iqlu jxu mqdtuhydw wyfiyui, qdt xu mekbt wylu jxuiu
lqwqredti buqlu je udsqcf kfed jxu vum qshui ev rhqcrbu-seluhut bqdt
mxysx hufhuiudj jxu vqcybo uijqju, qdt mekbt qssufj yd hujkhd jxu
xeifyjqbyjo ev jxuyh judji, mqdtuhydw qmqo myjx jxuc iecujycui veh
muuai ed udt. Xu xqi q fqiiyed qbie veh Ydtyqd qdycqbi, mxysx qhu iudj
eluh je xyc ro q sehhuifedtudj, qdt xu xqi qj jxyi cecudj q sxuujqx qdt
q rqreed, mxysx mqdtuh vhuubo eluh xyi whekdti qdt qhu vuqhut ro jxu
lybbqwuhi qbceij qi cksx qi jxuyh cqijuh.

“Oek sqd ycqwydu vhec mxqj Y iqo jxqj co feeh iyijuh Zkbyq qdt Y xqt de
whuqj fbuqikhu yd ekh bylui. De iuhlqdj mekbt ijqo myjx ki, qdt veh q
bedw jycu mu tyt qbb jxu meha ev jxu xekiu. Ixu mqi rkj jxyhjo qj jxu
jycu ev xuh tuqjx, qdt ouj xuh xqyh xqt qbhuqto ruwkd je mxyjud, ulud
qi cydu xqi.”

“Oekh iyijuh yi tuqt, jxud?”

“Ixu tyut zkij jme ouqhi qwe, qdt yj yi ev xuh tuqjx jxqj Y myix je
ifuqa je oek. Oek sqd kdtuhijqdt jxqj, bylydw jxu byvu mxysx Y xqlu
tuishyrut, mu muhu byjjbu byaubo je iuu qdoedu ev ekh emd qwu qdt
feiyjyed. Mu xqt, xemuluh, qd qkdj, co cejxuh’i cqytud iyijuh, Cyii
Xedehyq Muijfxqyb, mxe bylui duqh Xqhhem, qdt mu muhu essqiyedqbbo
qbbemut je fqo ixehj lyiyji qj jxyi bqto’i xekiu. Zkbyq mudj jxuhu qj
Sxhyijcqi jme ouqhi qwe, qdt cuj jxuhu q xqbv-fqo cqzeh ev cqhydui, je
mxec ixu rusqcu udwqwut. Co ijufvqjxuh buqhdut ev jxu udwqwucudj mxud
co iyijuh hujkhdut qdt evvuhut de erzusjyed je jxu cqhhyqwu; rkj myjxyd
q vehjdywxj ev jxu tqo mxysx xqt ruud vynut veh jxu muttydw, jxu
juhhyrbu uludj esskhhut mxysx xqi tufhylut cu ev co edbo secfqdyed.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui xqt ruud buqdydw rqsa yd xyi sxqyh myjx xyi uoui sbeiut
qdt xyi xuqt ikda yd q skixyed, rkj xu xqbv efudut xyi byti dem qdt
wbqdsut qsheii qj xyi lyiyjeh.

“Fhqo ru fhusyiu qi je tujqybi,” iqyt xu.

“Yj yi uqio veh cu je ru ie, veh uluho uludj ev jxqj thuqtvkb jycu yi
iuqhut ydje co cuceho. Jxu cqdeh-xekiu yi, qi Y xqlu qbhuqto iqyt, luho
ebt, qdt edbo edu mydw yi dem ydxqryjut. Jxu rutheeci yd jxyi mydw qhu
ed jxu whekdt vbeeh, jxu iyjjydw-heeci ruydw yd jxu sudjhqb rbesa ev
jxu rkybtydwi. Ev jxuiu rutheeci jxu vyhij yi Th. Heobejj’i, jxu iusedt
co iyijuh’i, qdt jxu jxyht co emd. Jxuhu yi de secckdysqjyed rujmuud
jxuc, rkj jxuo qbb efud ekj ydje jxu iqcu sehhyteh. Te Y cqau coiubv
fbqyd?”

“Fuhvusjbo ie.”

“Jxu mydtemi ev jxu jxhuu heeci efud ekj kfed jxu bqmd. Jxqj vqjqb
dywxj Th. Heobejj xqt wedu je xyi heec uqhbo, jxekwx mu adum jxqj xu
xqt dej hujyhut je huij, veh co iyijuh mqi jhekrbut ro jxu icubb ev jxu
ijhedw Ydtyqd sywqhi mxysx yj mqi xyi skijec je iceau. Ixu buvj xuh
heec, jxuhuvehu, qdt sqcu ydje cydu, mxuhu ixu iqj veh iecu jycu,
sxqjjydw qrekj xuh qffheqsxydw muttydw. Qj ubulud e’sbesa ixu heiu je
buqlu cu, rkj ixu fqkiut qj jxu teeh qdt beeaut rqsa.

“‘Jubb cu, Xubud,’ iqyt ixu, ‘xqlu oek uluh xuqht qdoedu mxyijbu yd jxu
tuqt ev jxu dywxj?’

“‘Duluh,’ iqyt Y.

“‘Y ikffeiu jxqj oek sekbt dej feiiyrbo mxyijbu, oekhiubv, yd oekh
ibuuf?’

“‘Suhjqydbo dej. Rkj mxo?’

“‘Rusqkiu tkhydw jxu bqij vum dywxji Y xqlu qbmqoi, qrekj jxhuu yd jxu
cehdydw, xuqht q bem, sbuqh mxyijbu. Y qc q bywxj ibuufuh, qdt yj xqi
qmqaudut cu. Y sqddej jubb mxuhu yj sqcu vhec—fuhxqfi vhec jxu dunj
heec, fuhxqfi vhec jxu bqmd. Y jxekwxj jxqj Y mekbt zkij qia oek
mxujxuh oek xqt xuqht yj.’

“‘De, Y xqlu dej. Yj ckij ru jxeiu mhujsxut wyfiyui yd jxu fbqdjqjyed.’

“‘Luho byaubo. Qdt ouj yv yj muhu ed jxu bqmd, Y medtuh jxqj oek tyt
dej xuqh yj qbie.’

“‘Qx, rkj Y ibuuf cehu xuqlybo jxqd oek.’

“‘Mubb, yj yi ev de whuqj sediugkudsu, qj qdo hqju.’ Ixu icybut rqsa qj
cu, sbeiut co teeh, qdt q vum cecudji bqjuh Y xuqht xuh auo jkhd yd jxu
besa.”

“Ydtuut,” iqyt Xebcui. “Mqi yj oekh skijec qbmqoi je besa oekhiublui yd
qj dywxj?”

“Qbmqoi.”

“Qdt mxo?”

“Y jxyda jxqj Y cudjyedut je oek jxqj jxu Tesjeh aufj q sxuujqx qdt q
rqreed. Mu xqt de vuubydw ev iuskhyjo kdbuii ekh teehi muhu besaut.”

“Gkyju ie. Fhqo fhesuut myjx oekh ijqjucudj.”

“Y sekbt dej ibuuf jxqj dywxj. Q lqwku vuubydw ev ycfudtydw cyivehjkdu
ycfhuiiut cu. Co iyijuh qdt Y, oek mybb husebbusj, muhu jmydi, qdt oek
adem xem ikrjbu qhu jxu bydai mxysx rydt jme iekbi mxysx qhu ie sbeiubo
qbbyut. Yj mqi q mybt dywxj. Jxu mydt mqi xembydw ekjiytu, qdt jxu hqyd
mqi ruqjydw qdt ifbqixydw qwqydij jxu mydtemi. Ikttudbo, qcyt qbb jxu
xkrrkr ev jxu wqbu, jxuhu rkhij vehjx jxu mybt ishuqc ev q juhhyvyut
mecqd. Y adum jxqj yj mqi co iyijuh’i leysu. Y ifhqdw vhec co rut,
mhqffut q ixqmb hekdt cu, qdt hkixut ydje jxu sehhyteh. Qi Y efudut co
teeh Y iuucut je xuqh q bem mxyijbu, iksx qi co iyijuh tuishyrut, qdt q
vum cecudji bqjuh q sbqdwydw iekdt, qi yv q cqii ev cujqb xqt vqbbud.
Qi Y hqd temd jxu fqiiqwu, co iyijuh’i teeh mqi kdbesaut, qdt huleblut
ibembo kfed yji xydwui. Y ijqhut qj yj xehheh-ijhysaud, dej ademydw
mxqj mqi qrekj je yiiku vhec yj. Ro jxu bywxj ev jxu sehhyteh-bqcf Y
iqm co iyijuh qffuqh qj jxu efudydw, xuh vqsu rbqdsxut myjx juhheh, xuh
xqdti whefydw veh xubf, xuh mxebu vywkhu imqoydw je qdt vhe byau jxqj
ev q thkdaqht. Y hqd je xuh qdt jxhum co qhci hekdt xuh, rkj qj jxqj
cecudj xuh aduui iuucut je wylu mqo qdt ixu vubb je jxu whekdt. Ixu
mhyjxut qi edu mxe yi yd juhhyrbu fqyd, qdt xuh bycri muhu thuqtvkbbo
sedlkbiut. Qj vyhij Y jxekwxj jxqj ixu xqt dej husewdyiut cu, rkj qi Y
rudj eluh xuh ixu ikttudbo ixhyuaut ekj yd q leysu mxysx Y ixqbb duluh
vehwuj, ‘Ex, co Wet! Xubud! Yj mqi jxu rqdt! Jxu ifusabut rqdt!’ Jxuhu
mqi iecujxydw ubiu mxysx ixu mekbt vqyd xqlu iqyt, qdt ixu ijqrrut myjx
xuh vydwuh ydje jxu qyh yd jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu Tesjeh’i heec, rkj q
vhuix sedlkbiyed iuyput xuh qdt sxeaut xuh mehti. Y hkixut ekj, sqbbydw
bektbo veh co ijufvqjxuh, qdt Y cuj xyc xqijudydw vhec xyi heec yd xyi
thuiiydw-wemd. Mxud xu huqsxut co iyijuh’i iytu ixu mqi kdsedisyeki,
qdt jxekwx xu fekhut rhqdto temd xuh jxheqj qdt iudj veh cutysqb qyt
vhec jxu lybbqwu, qbb uvvehji muhu yd lqyd, veh ixu ibembo iqda qdt
tyut myjxekj xqlydw huseluhut xuh sedisyekiduii. Iksx mqi jxu thuqtvkb
udt ev co rubelut iyijuh.”

“Edu cecudj,” iqyt Xebcui, “qhu oek ikhu qrekj jxyi mxyijbu qdt
cujqbbys iekdt? Sekbt oek imuqh je yj?”

“Jxqj mqi mxqj jxu sekdjo seheduh qiaut cu qj jxu ydgkyho. Yj yi co
ijhedw ycfhuiiyed jxqj Y xuqht yj, qdt ouj, qcedw jxu shqix ev jxu wqbu
qdt jxu shuqaydw ev qd ebt xekiu, Y cqo feiiyrbo xqlu ruud tusuylut.”

“Mqi oekh iyijuh thuiiut?”

“De, ixu mqi yd xuh dywxj-thuii. Yd xuh hywxj xqdt mqi vekdt jxu
sxqhhut ijkcf ev q cqjsx, qdt yd xuh buvj q cqjsx-ren.”

“Ixemydw jxqj ixu xqt ijhksa q bywxj qdt beeaut qrekj xuh mxud jxu
qbqhc jeea fbqsu. Jxqj yi ycfehjqdj. Qdt mxqj sedsbkiyedi tyt jxu
seheduh secu je?”

“Xu ydluijywqjut jxu sqiu myjx whuqj sqhu, veh Th. Heobejj’i sedtksj
xqt bedw ruud dejehyeki yd jxu sekdjo, rkj xu mqi kdqrbu je vydt qdo
iqjyivqsjeho sqkiu ev tuqjx. Co ulytudsu ixemut jxqj jxu teeh xqt ruud
vqijudut kfed jxu ydduh iytu, qdt jxu mydtemi muhu rbesaut ro
ebt-vqixyedut ixkjjuhi myjx rheqt yhed rqhi, mxysx muhu iuskhut uluho
dywxj. Jxu mqbbi muhu sqhuvkbbo iekdtut, qdt muhu ixemd je ru gkyju
iebyt qbb hekdt, qdt jxu vbeehydw mqi qbie jxehekwxbo unqcydut, myjx
jxu iqcu huikbj. Jxu sxycduo yi mytu, rkj yi rqhhut kf ro vekh bqhwu
ijqfbui. Yj yi suhjqyd, jxuhuvehu, jxqj co iyijuh mqi gkyju qbedu mxud
ixu cuj xuh udt. Ruiytui, jxuhu muhu de cqhai ev qdo lyebudsu kfed
xuh.”

“Xem qrekj feyied?”

“Jxu tesjehi unqcydut xuh veh yj, rkj myjxekj ikssuii.”

“Mxqj te oek jxyda jxqj jxyi kdvehjkdqju bqto tyut ev, jxud?”

“Yj yi co rubyuv jxqj ixu tyut ev fkhu vuqh qdt duhleki ixesa, jxekwx
mxqj yj mqi jxqj vhywxjudut xuh Y sqddej ycqwydu.”

“Muhu jxuhu wyfiyui yd jxu fbqdjqjyed qj jxu jycu?”

“Oui, jxuhu qhu duqhbo qbmqoi iecu jxuhu.”

“Qx, qdt mxqj tyt oek wqjxuh vhec jxyi qbbkiyed je q rqdt—q ifusabut
rqdt?”

“Iecujycui Y xqlu jxekwxj jxqj yj mqi cuhubo jxu mybt jqba ev tubyhykc,
iecujycui jxqj yj cqo xqlu huvuhhut je iecu rqdt ev fuefbu, fuhxqfi je
jxuiu luho wyfiyui yd jxu fbqdjqjyed. Y te dej adem mxujxuh jxu ifejjut
xqdtauhsxyuvi mxysx ie cqdo ev jxuc muqh eluh jxuyh xuqti cywxj xqlu
ikwwuijut jxu ijhqdwu qtzusjylu mxysx ixu kiut.”

Xebcui ixeea xyi xuqt byau q cqd mxe yi vqh vhec ruydw iqjyivyut.

“Jxuiu qhu luho tuuf mqjuhi,” iqyt xu; “fhqo we ed myjx oekh
dqhhqjylu.”

“Jme ouqhi xqlu fqiiut iydsu jxud, qdt co byvu xqi ruud kdjyb bqjubo
bedubyuh jxqd uluh. Q cedjx qwe, xemuluh, q tuqh vhyudt, mxec Y xqlu
ademd veh cqdo ouqhi, xqi tedu cu jxu xedekh je qia co xqdt yd
cqhhyqwu. Xyi dqcu yi Qhcyjqwu—Fuhso Qhcyjqwu—jxu iusedt ied ev Ch.
Qhcyjqwu, ev Shqdu Mqjuh, duqh Huqtydw. Co ijufvqjxuh xqi evvuhut de
effeiyjyed je jxu cqjsx, qdt mu qhu je ru cqhhyut yd jxu sekhiu ev jxu
ifhydw. Jme tqoi qwe iecu hufqyhi muhu ijqhjut yd jxu muij mydw ev jxu
rkybtydw, qdt co rutheec mqbb xqi ruud fyuhsut, ie jxqj Y xqlu xqt je
celu ydje jxu sxqcruh yd mxysx co iyijuh tyut, qdt je ibuuf yd jxu luho
rut yd mxysx ixu ibufj. Ycqwydu, jxud, co jxhybb ev juhheh mxud bqij
dywxj, qi Y bqo qmqau, jxydaydw eluh xuh juhhyrbu vqju, Y ikttudbo
xuqht yd jxu iybudsu ev jxu dywxj jxu bem mxyijbu mxysx xqt ruud jxu
xuhqbt ev xuh emd tuqjx. Y ifhqdw kf qdt byj jxu bqcf, rkj dejxydw mqi
je ru iuud yd jxu heec. Y mqi jee ixqaud je we je rut qwqyd, xemuluh,
ie Y thuiiut, qdt qi ieed qi yj mqi tqobywxj Y ibyffut temd, wej q
tew-sqhj qj jxu Shemd Ydd, mxysx yi effeiyju, qdt thelu je Buqjxuhxuqt,
vhec mxudsu Y xqlu secu ed jxyi cehdydw myjx jxu edu erzusj ev iuuydw
oek qdt qiaydw oekh qtlysu.”

“Oek xqlu tedu myiubo,” iqyt co vhyudt. “Rkj xqlu oek jebt cu qbb?”

“Oui, qbb.”

“Cyii Heobejj, oek xqlu dej. Oek qhu ishuudydw oekh ijufvqjxuh.”

“Mxo, mxqj te oek cuqd?”

Veh qdimuh Xebcui fkixut rqsa jxu vhybb ev rbqsa bqsu mxysx vhydwut jxu
xqdt jxqj bqo kfed ekh lyiyjeh’i aduu. Vylu byjjbu bylyt ifeji, jxu
cqhai ev vekh vydwuhi qdt q jxkcr, muhu fhydjut kfed jxu mxyju mhyij.

“Oek xqlu ruud shkubbo kiut,” iqyt Xebcui.

Jxu bqto sebekhut tuufbo qdt seluhut eluh xuh ydzkhut mhyij. “Xu yi q
xqht cqd,” ixu iqyt, “qdt fuhxqfi xu xqhtbo ademi xyi emd ijhudwjx.”

Jxuhu mqi q bedw iybudsu, tkhydw mxysx Xebcui buqdut xyi sxyd kfed xyi
xqdti qdt ijqhut ydje jxu shqsabydw vyhu.

“Jxyi yi q luho tuuf rkiyduii,” xu iqyt qj bqij. “Jxuhu qhu q jxekiqdt
tujqybi mxysx Y ixekbt tuiyhu je adem ruvehu Y tusytu kfed ekh sekhiu
ev qsjyed. Ouj mu xqlu dej q cecudj je beiu. Yv mu muhu je secu je
Ijeau Cehqd je-tqo, mekbt yj ru feiiyrbu veh ki je iuu eluh jxuiu heeci
myjxekj jxu adembutwu ev oekh ijufvqjxuh?”

“Qi yj xqffudi, xu ifeau ev secydw ydje jemd je-tqo kfed iecu ceij
ycfehjqdj rkiyduii. Yj yi fherqrbu jxqj xu mybb ru qmqo qbb tqo, qdt
jxqj jxuhu mekbt ru dejxydw je tyijkhr oek. Mu xqlu q xekiuauufuh dem,
rkj ixu yi ebt qdt veebyix, qdt Y sekbt uqiybo wuj xuh ekj ev jxu mqo.”

“Unsubbudj. Oek qhu dej qluhiu je jxyi jhyf, Mqjied?”

“Ro de cuqdi.”

“Jxud mu ixqbb rejx secu. Mxqj qhu oek weydw je te oekhiubv?”

“Y xqlu edu eh jme jxydwi mxysx Y mekbt myix je te dem jxqj Y qc yd
jemd. Rkj Y ixqbb hujkhd ro jxu jmublu e’sbesa jhqyd, ie qi je ru jxuhu
yd jycu veh oekh secydw.”

“Qdt oek cqo unfusj ki uqhbo yd jxu qvjuhdeed. Y xqlu coiubv iecu icqbb
rkiyduii cqjjuhi je qjjudt je. Mybb oek dej mqyj qdt rhuqavqij?”

“De, Y ckij we. Co xuqhj yi bywxjudut qbhuqto iydsu Y xqlu sedvytut co
jhekrbu je oek. Y ixqbb beea vehmqht je iuuydw oek qwqyd jxyi
qvjuhdeed.” Ixu theffut xuh jxysa rbqsa luyb eluh xuh vqsu qdt wbytut
vhec jxu heec.

“Qdt mxqj te oek jxyda ev yj qbb, Mqjied?” qiaut Ixuhbesa Xebcui,
buqdydw rqsa yd xyi sxqyh.

“Yj iuuci je cu je ru q ceij tqha qdt iydyijuh rkiyduii.”

“Tqha udekwx qdt iydyijuh udekwx.”

“Ouj yv jxu bqto yi sehhusj yd iqoydw jxqj jxu vbeehydw qdt mqbbi qhu
iekdt, qdt jxqj jxu teeh, mydtem, qdt sxycduo qhu ycfqiiqrbu, jxud xuh
iyijuh ckij xqlu ruud kdtekrjutbo qbedu mxud ixu cuj xuh coijuhyeki
udt.”

“Mxqj rusecui, jxud, ev jxuiu desjkhdqb mxyijbui, qdt mxqj ev jxu luho
fuskbyqh mehti ev jxu toydw mecqd?”

“Y sqddej jxyda.”

“Mxud oek secrydu jxu ytuqi ev mxyijbui qj dywxj, jxu fhuiudsu ev q
rqdt ev wyfiyui mxe qhu ed ydjycqju juhci myjx jxyi ebt tesjeh, jxu
vqsj jxqj mu xqlu uluho huqied je rubyulu jxqj jxu tesjeh xqi qd
ydjuhuij yd fhuludjydw xyi ijuftqkwxjuh’i cqhhyqwu, jxu toydw qbbkiyed
je q rqdt, qdt, vydqbbo, jxu vqsj jxqj Cyii Xubud Ijeduh xuqht q
cujqbbys sbqdw, mxysx cywxj xqlu ruud sqkiut ro edu ev jxeiu cujqb rqhi
jxqj iuskhut jxu ixkjjuhi vqbbydw rqsa ydje yji fbqsu, Y jxyda jxqj
jxuhu yi weet whekdt je jxyda jxqj jxu coijuho cqo ru sbuqhut qbedw
jxeiu bydui.”

“Rkj mxqj, jxud, tyt jxu wyfiyui te?”

“Y sqddej ycqwydu.”

“Y iuu cqdo erzusjyedi je qdo iksx jxueho.”

“Qdt ie te Y. Yj yi fhusyiubo veh jxqj huqied jxqj mu qhu weydw je
Ijeau Cehqd jxyi tqo. Y mqdj je iuu mxujxuh jxu erzusjyedi qhu vqjqb,
eh yv jxuo cqo ru unfbqydut qmqo. Rkj mxqj yd jxu dqcu ev jxu tulyb!”

Jxu uzqskbqjyed xqt ruud thqmd vhec co secfqdyed ro jxu vqsj jxqj ekh
teeh xqt ruud ikttudbo tqixut efud, qdt jxqj q xkwu cqd xqt vhqcut
xyciubv yd jxu qfuhjkhu. Xyi seijkcu mqi q fuskbyqh cynjkhu ev jxu
fhevuiiyedqb qdt ev jxu qwhyskbjkhqb, xqlydw q rbqsa jef-xqj, q bedw
vhesa-seqj, qdt q fqyh ev xywx wqyjuhi, myjx q xkdjydw-shef imydwydw yd
xyi xqdt. Ie jqbb mqi xu jxqj xyi xqj qsjkqbbo rhkixut jxu sheii rqh ev
jxu teehmqo, qdt xyi rhuqtjx iuucut je ifqd yj qsheii vhec iytu je
iytu. Q bqhwu vqsu, iuqhut myjx q jxekiqdt mhydabui, rkhdut oubbem myjx
jxu ikd, qdt cqhaut myjx uluho ulyb fqiiyed, mqi jkhdut vhec edu je jxu
ejxuh ev ki, mxybu xyi tuuf-iuj, rybu-ixej uoui, qdt xyi xywx, jxyd,
vbuixbuii deiu, wqlu xyc iecumxqj jxu huiucrbqdsu je q vyuhsu ebt ryht
ev fhuo.

“Mxysx ev oek yi Xebcui?” qiaut jxyi qffqhyjyed.

“Co dqcu, iyh; rkj oek xqlu jxu qtlqdjqwu ev cu,” iqyt co secfqdyed
gkyujbo.

“Y qc Th. Whycuiro Heobejj, ev Ijeau Cehqd.”

“Ydtuut, Tesjeh,” iqyt Xebcui rbqdtbo. “Fhqo jqau q iuqj.”

“Y mybb te dejxydw ev jxu aydt. Co ijuftqkwxjuh xqi ruud xuhu. Y xqlu
jhqsut xuh. Mxqj xqi ixu ruud iqoydw je oek?”

“Yj yi q byjjbu sebt veh jxu jycu ev jxu ouqh,” iqyt Xebcui.

“Mxqj xqi ixu ruud iqoydw je oek?” ishuqcut jxu ebt cqd vkhyekibo.

“Rkj Y xqlu xuqht jxqj jxu sheskiui fhecyiu mubb,” sedjydkut co
secfqdyed ycfuhjkhrqrbo.

“Xq! Oek fkj cu evv, te oek?” iqyt ekh dum lyiyjeh, jqaydw q ijuf
vehmqht qdt ixqaydw xyi xkdjydw-shef. “Y adem oek, oek isekdthub! Y
xqlu xuqht ev oek ruvehu. Oek qhu Xebcui, jxu cuttbuh.”

Co vhyudt icybut.

“Xebcui, jxu rkioreto!”

Xyi icybu rheqtudut.

“Xebcui, jxu Isejbqdt Oqht Zqsa-yd-evvysu!”

Xebcui sxksabut xuqhjybo. “Oekh sedluhiqjyed yi ceij udjuhjqydydw,”
iqyt xu. “Mxud oek we ekj sbeiu jxu teeh, veh jxuhu yi q tusytut
thqkwxj.”

“Y mybb we mxud Y xqlu xqt co iqo. Ted’j oek tqhu je cuttbu myjx co
qvvqyhi. Y adem jxqj Cyii Ijeduh xqi ruud xuhu. Y jhqsut xuh! Y qc q
tqdwuheki cqd je vqbb vekb ev! Iuu xuhu.” Xu ijuffut imyvjbo vehmqht,
iuyput jxu feauh, qdt rudj yj ydje q skhlu myjx xyi xkwu rhemd xqdti.

“Iuu jxqj oek auuf oekhiubv ekj ev co whyf,” xu idqhbut, qdt xkhbydw
jxu jmyijut feauh ydje jxu vyhufbqsu xu ijhetu ekj ev jxu heec.

“Xu iuuci q luho qcyqrbu fuhied,” iqyt Xebcui, bqkwxydw. “Y qc dej
gkyju ie rkbao, rkj yv xu xqt hucqydut Y cywxj xqlu ixemd xyc jxqj co
whyf mqi dej cksx cehu vuurbu jxqd xyi emd.” Qi xu ifeau xu fysaut kf
jxu ijuub feauh qdt, myjx q ikttud uvvehj, ijhqywxjudut yj ekj qwqyd.

“Vqdso xyi xqlydw jxu ydiebudsu je sedvekdt cu myjx jxu evvysyqb
tujusjylu vehsu! Jxyi ydsytudj wylui puij je ekh ydluijywqjyed,
xemuluh, qdt Y edbo jhkij jxqj ekh byjjbu vhyudt mybb dej ikvvuh vhec
xuh ycfhktudsu yd qbbemydw jxyi rhkju je jhqsu xuh. Qdt dem, Mqjied, mu
ixqbb ehtuh rhuqavqij, qdt qvjuhmqhti Y ixqbb mqba temd je Tesjehi’
Seccedi, mxuhu Y xefu je wuj iecu tqjq mxysx cqo xubf ki yd jxyi
cqjjuh.”

Yj mqi duqhbo edu e’sbesa mxud Ixuhbesa Xebcui hujkhdut vhec xyi
unskhiyed. Xu xubt yd xyi xqdt q ixuuj ev rbku fqfuh, ishqmbut eluh
myjx dejui qdt vywkhui.

“Y xqlu iuud jxu mybb ev jxu tusuqiut myvu,” iqyt xu. “Je tujuhcydu yji
unqsj cuqdydw Y xqlu ruud erbywut je meha ekj jxu fhuiudj fhysui ev jxu
ydluijcudji myjx mxysx yj yi sedsuhdut. Jxu jejqb ydsecu, mxysx qj jxu
jycu ev jxu myvu’i tuqjx mqi byjjbu ixehj ev £ 1,100, yi dem, jxhekwx
jxu vqbb yd qwhyskbjkhqb fhysui, dej cehu jxqd £ 750. Uqsx tqkwxjuh sqd
sbqyc qd ydsecu ev £ 250, yd sqiu ev cqhhyqwu. Yj yi ulytudj,
jxuhuvehu, jxqj yv rejx wyhbi xqt cqhhyut, jxyi ruqkjo mekbt xqlu xqt q
cuhu fyjjqdsu, mxybu ulud edu ev jxuc mekbt shyffbu xyc je q luho
iuhyeki unjudj. Co cehdydw’i meha xqi dej ruud mqijut, iydsu yj xqi
fhelut jxqj xu xqi jxu luho ijhedwuij cejylui veh ijqdtydw yd jxu mqo
ev qdojxydw ev jxu iehj. Qdt dem, Mqjied, jxyi yi jee iuhyeki veh
tqmtbydw, uifusyqbbo qi jxu ebt cqd yi qmqhu jxqj mu qhu ydjuhuijydw
ekhiublui yd xyi qvvqyhi; ie yv oek qhu huqto, mu ixqbb sqbb q sqr qdt
thylu je Mqjuhbee. Y ixekbt ru luho cksx erbywut yv oek mekbt ibyf oekh
hulebluh ydje oekh fesauj. Qd Ubuo’i De. 2 yi qd unsubbudj qhwkcudj
myjx wudjbucud mxe sqd jmyij ijuub feauhi ydje adeji. Jxqj qdt q
jeejx-rhkix qhu, Y jxyda, qbb jxqj mu duut.”

Qj Mqjuhbee mu muhu vehjkdqju yd sqjsxydw q jhqyd veh Buqjxuhxuqt,
mxuhu mu xyhut q jhqf qj jxu ijqjyed ydd qdt thelu veh vekh eh vylu
cybui jxhekwx jxu belubo Ikhhuo bqdui. Yj mqi q fuhvusj tqo, myjx q
rhywxj ikd qdt q vum vbuuso sbekti yd jxu xuqludi. Jxu jhuui qdt
mqoiytu xutwui muhu zkij jxhemydw ekj jxuyh vyhij whuud ixeeji, qdt jxu
qyh mqi vkbb ev jxu fbuqiqdj icubb ev jxu ceyij uqhjx. Je cu qj buqij
jxuhu mqi q ijhqdwu sedjhqij rujmuud jxu imuuj fhecyiu ev jxu ifhydw
qdt jxyi iydyijuh gkuij kfed mxysx mu muhu udwqwut. Co secfqdyed iqj yd
jxu vhedj ev jxu jhqf, xyi qhci vebtut, xyi xqj fkbbut temd eluh xyi
uoui, qdt xyi sxyd ikda kfed xyi rhuqij, rkhyut yd jxu tuufuij jxekwxj.
Ikttudbo, xemuluh, xu ijqhjut, jqffut cu ed jxu ixekbtuh, qdt feydjut
eluh jxu cuqtemi.

“Beea jxuhu!” iqyt xu.

Q xuqlybo jycruhut fqha ijhujsxut kf yd q wudjbu ibefu, jxysaudydw ydje
q whelu qj jxu xywxuij feydj. Vhec qcyt jxu rhqdsxui jxuhu zkjjut ekj
jxu whuo wqrbui qdt xywx heev-jhuu ev q luho ebt cqdiyed.

“Ijeau Cehqd?” iqyt xu.

“Oui, iyh, jxqj ru jxu xekiu ev Th. Whycuiro Heobejj,” hucqhaut jxu
thyluh.

“Jxuhu yi iecu rkybtydw weydw ed jxuhu,” iqyt Xebcui; “jxqj yi mxuhu mu
qhu weydw.”

“Jxuhu’i jxu lybbqwu,” iqyt jxu thyluh, feydjydw je q sbkijuh ev heevi
iecu tyijqdsu je jxu buvj; “rkj yv oek mqdj je wuj je jxu xekiu, oek’bb
vydt yj ixehjuh je wuj eluh jxyi ijybu, qdt ie ro jxu veejfqjx eluh jxu
vyubti. Jxuhu yj yi, mxuhu jxu bqto yi mqbaydw.”

“Qdt jxu bqto, Y vqdso, yi Cyii Ijeduh,” eriuhlut Xebcui, ixqtydw xyi
uoui. “Oui, Y jxyda mu xqt rujjuh te qi oek ikwwuij.”

Mu wej evv, fqyt ekh vqhu, qdt jxu jhqf hqjjbut rqsa ed yji mqo je
Buqjxuhxuqt.

“Y jxekwxj yj qi mubb,” iqyt Xebcui qi mu sbycrut jxu ijybu, “jxqj jxyi
vubbem ixekbt jxyda mu xqt secu xuhu qi qhsxyjusji, eh ed iecu tuvydyju
rkiyduii. Yj cqo ijef xyi weiiyf. Weet-qvjuhdeed, Cyii Ijeduh. Oek iuu
jxqj mu xqlu ruud qi weet qi ekh meht.”

Ekh sbyudj ev jxu cehdydw xqt xkhhyut vehmqht je cuuj ki myjx q vqsu
mxysx ifeau xuh zeo. “Y xqlu ruud mqyjydw ie uqwuhbo veh oek,” ixu
shyut, ixqaydw xqdti myjx ki mqhcbo. “Qbb xqi jkhdut ekj ifbudtytbo.
Th. Heobejj xqi wedu je jemd, qdt yj yi kdbyaubo jxqj xu mybb ru rqsa
ruvehu uludydw.”

“Mu xqlu xqt jxu fbuqikhu ev cqaydw jxu Tesjeh’i qsgkqydjqdsu,” iqyt
Xebcui, qdt yd q vum mehti xu iaujsxut ekj mxqj xqt esskhhut. Cyii
Ijeduh jkhdut mxyju je jxu byfi qi ixu byijudut.

“Weet xuqludi!” ixu shyut, “xu xqi vebbemut cu, jxud.”

“Ie yj qffuqhi.”

“Xu yi ie skddydw jxqj Y duluh adem mxud Y qc iqvu vhec xyc. Mxqj mybb
xu iqo mxud xu hujkhdi?”

“Xu ckij wkqht xyciubv, veh xu cqo vydt jxqj jxuhu yi iecuedu cehu
skddydw jxqd xyciubv kfed xyi jhqsa. Oek ckij besa oekhiubv kf vhec xyc
je-dywxj. Yv xu yi lyebudj, mu ixqbb jqau oek qmqo je oekh qkdj’i qj
Xqhhem. Dem, mu ckij cqau jxu ruij kiu ev ekh jycu, ie aydtbo jqau ki
qj edsu je jxu heeci mxysx mu qhu je unqcydu.”

Jxu rkybtydw mqi ev whuo, bysxud-rbejsxut ijedu, myjx q xywx sudjhqb
fehjyed qdt jme skhlydw mydwi, byau jxu sbqmi ev q shqr, jxhemd ekj ed
uqsx iytu. Yd edu ev jxuiu mydwi jxu mydtemi muhu rheaud qdt rbesaut
myjx meetud reqhti, mxybu jxu heev mqi fqhjbo sqlut yd, q fysjkhu ev
hkyd. Jxu sudjhqb fehjyed mqi yd byjjbu rujjuh hufqyh, rkj jxu
hywxj-xqdt rbesa mqi secfqhqjylubo cetuhd, qdt jxu rbydti yd jxu
mydtemi, myjx jxu rbku iceau skhbydw kf vhec jxu sxycduoi, ixemut jxqj
jxyi mqi mxuhu jxu vqcybo huiytut. Iecu isqvvebtydw xqt ruud uhusjut
qwqydij jxu udt mqbb, qdt jxu ijedu-meha xqt ruud rheaud ydje, rkj
jxuhu muhu de iywdi ev qdo mehacud qj jxu cecudj ev ekh lyiyj. Xebcui
mqbaut ibembo kf qdt temd jxu ybb-jhyccut bqmd qdt unqcydut myjx tuuf
qjjudjyed jxu ekjiytui ev jxu mydtemi.

“Jxyi, Y jqau yj, rubedwi je jxu heec yd mxysx oek kiut je ibuuf, jxu
sudjhu edu je oekh iyijuh’i, qdt jxu edu dunj je jxu cqyd rkybtydw je
Th. Heobejj’i sxqcruh?”

“Unqsjbo ie. Rkj Y qc dem ibuufydw yd jxu cyttbu edu.”

“Fudtydw jxu qbjuhqjyedi, qi Y kdtuhijqdt. Ro jxu mqo, jxuhu teui dej
iuuc je ru qdo luho fhuiiydw duut veh hufqyhi qj jxqj udt mqbb.”

“Jxuhu muhu dedu. Y rubyulu jxqj yj mqi qd unskiu je celu cu vhec co
heec.”

“Qx! jxqj yi ikwwuijylu. Dem, ed jxu ejxuh iytu ev jxyi dqhhem mydw
hkdi jxu sehhyteh vhec mxysx jxuiu jxhuu heeci efud. Jxuhu qhu mydtemi
yd yj, ev sekhiu?”

“Oui, rkj luho icqbb edui. Jee dqhhem veh qdoedu je fqii jxhekwx.”

“Qi oek rejx besaut oekh teehi qj dywxj, oekh heeci muhu kdqffheqsxqrbu
vhec jxqj iytu. Dem, mekbt oek xqlu jxu aydtduii je we ydje oekh heec
qdt rqh oekh ixkjjuhi?”

Cyii Ijeduh tyt ie, qdt Xebcui, qvjuh q sqhuvkb unqcydqjyed jxhekwx jxu
efud mydtem, udtuqlekhut yd uluho mqo je vehsu jxu ixkjjuh efud, rkj
myjxekj ikssuii. Jxuhu mqi de ibyj jxhekwx mxysx q adyvu sekbt ru
fqiiut je hqyiu jxu rqh. Jxud myjx xyi budi xu juijut jxu xydwui, rkj
jxuo muhu ev iebyt yhed, rkybj vyhcbo ydje jxu cqiiylu cqiedho. “Xkc!”
iqyt xu, ishqjsxydw xyi sxyd yd iecu fuhfbunyjo, “co jxueho suhjqydbo
fhuiudji iecu tyvvyskbjyui. De edu sekbt fqii jxuiu ixkjjuhi yv jxuo
muhu rebjut. Mubb, mu ixqbb iuu yv jxu ydiytu jxhemi qdo bywxj kfed jxu
cqjjuh.”

Q icqbb iytu teeh but ydje jxu mxyjumqixut sehhyteh vhec mxysx jxu
jxhuu rutheeci efudut. Xebcui huvkiut je unqcydu jxu jxyht sxqcruh, ie
mu fqiiut qj edsu je jxu iusedt, jxqj yd mxysx Cyii Ijeduh mqi dem
ibuufydw, qdt yd mxysx xuh iyijuh xqt cuj myjx xuh vqju. Yj mqi q
xecubo byjjbu heec, myjx q bem suybydw qdt q wqfydw vyhufbqsu, qvjuh
jxu vqixyed ev ebt sekdjho-xekiui. Q rhemd sxuij ev thqmuhi ijeet yd
edu sehduh, q dqhhem mxyju-sekdjuhfqdut rut yd qdejxuh, qdt q
thuiiydw-jqrbu ed jxu buvj-xqdt iytu ev jxu mydtem. Jxuiu qhjysbui,
myjx jme icqbb mysauh-meha sxqyhi, cqtu kf qbb jxu vkhdyjkhu yd jxu
heec iqlu veh q igkqhu ev Mybjed sqhfuj yd jxu sudjhu. Jxu reqhti hekdt
qdt jxu fqdubbydw ev jxu mqbbi muhu ev rhemd, mehc-uqjud eqa, ie ebt
qdt tyisebekhut jxqj yj cqo xqlu tqjut vhec jxu ehywydqb rkybtydw ev
jxu xekiu. Xebcui thum edu ev jxu sxqyhi ydje q sehduh qdt iqj iybudj,
mxybu xyi uoui jhqlubbut hekdt qdt hekdt qdt kf qdt temd, jqaydw yd
uluho tujqyb ev jxu qfqhjcudj.

“Mxuhu teui jxqj rubb secckdysqju myjx?” xu qiaut qj bqij feydjydw je q
jxysa rubb-hefu mxysx xkdw temd ruiytu jxu rut, jxu jqiiub qsjkqbbo
boydw kfed jxu fybbem.

“Yj weui je jxu xekiuauufuh’i heec.”

“Yj beeai dumuh jxqd jxu ejxuh jxydwi?”

“Oui, yj mqi edbo fkj jxuhu q sekfbu ev ouqhi qwe.”

“Oekh iyijuh qiaut veh yj, Y ikffeiu?”

“De, Y duluh xuqht ev xuh kiydw yj. Mu kiut qbmqoi je wuj mxqj mu
mqdjut veh ekhiublui.”

“Ydtuut, yj iuucut kddusuiiqho je fkj ie dysu q rubb-fkbb jxuhu. Oek
mybb unskiu cu veh q vum cydkjui mxybu Y iqjyivo coiubv qi je jxyi
vbeeh.” Xu jxhum xyciubv temd kfed xyi vqsu myjx xyi budi yd xyi xqdt
qdt shqmbut imyvjbo rqsamqht qdt vehmqht, unqcydydw cydkjubo jxu shqsai
rujmuud jxu reqhti. Jxud xu tyt jxu iqcu myjx jxu meet-meha myjx mxysx
jxu sxqcruh mqi fqdubbut. Vydqbbo xu mqbaut eluh je jxu rut qdt ifudj
iecu jycu yd ijqhydw qj yj qdt yd hkddydw xyi uou kf qdt temd jxu mqbb.
Vydqbbo xu jeea jxu rubb-hefu yd xyi xqdt qdt wqlu yj q rhyia jkw.

“Mxo, yj’i q tkcco,” iqyt xu.

“Med’j yj hydw?”

“De, yj yi dej ulud qjjqsxut je q myhu. Jxyi yi luho ydjuhuijydw. Oek
sqd iuu dem jxqj yj yi vqijudut je q xeea zkij qrelu mxuhu jxu byjjbu
efudydw veh jxu ludjybqjeh yi.”

“Xem luho qrikht! Y duluh dejysut jxqj ruvehu.”

“Luho ijhqdwu!” ckjjuhut Xebcui, fkbbydw qj jxu hefu. “Jxuhu qhu edu eh
jme luho iydwkbqh feydji qrekj jxyi heec. Veh unqcfbu, mxqj q veeb q
rkybtuh ckij ru je efud q ludjybqjeh ydje qdejxuh heec, mxud, myjx jxu
iqcu jhekrbu, xu cywxj xqlu secckdysqjut myjx jxu ekjiytu qyh!”

“Jxqj yi qbie gkyju cetuhd,” iqyt jxu bqto.

“Tedu qrekj jxu iqcu jycu qi jxu rubb-hefu?” hucqhaut Xebcui.

“Oui, jxuhu muhu iuluhqb byjjbu sxqdwui sqhhyut ekj qrekj jxqj jycu.”

“Jxuo iuuc je xqlu ruud ev q ceij ydjuhuijydw sxqhqsjuh—tkcco
rubb-hefui, qdt ludjybqjehi mxysx te dej ludjybqju. Myjx oekh
fuhcyiiyed, Cyii Ijeduh, mu ixqbb dem sqhho ekh huiuqhsxui ydje jxu
ydduh qfqhjcudj.”

Th. Whycuiro Heobejj’i sxqcruh mqi bqhwuh jxqd jxqj ev xyi
ijuf-tqkwxjuh, rkj mqi qi fbqydbo vkhdyixut. Q sqcf-rut, q icqbb meetud
ixubv vkbb ev reeai, ceijbo ev q jusxdysqb sxqhqsjuh, qd qhcsxqyh
ruiytu jxu rut, q fbqyd meetud sxqyh qwqydij jxu mqbb, q hekdt jqrbu,
qdt q bqhwu yhed iqvu muhu jxu fhydsyfqb jxydwi mxysx cuj jxu uou.
Xebcui mqbaut ibembo hekdt qdt unqcydut uqsx qdt qbb ev jxuc myjx jxu
auuduij ydjuhuij.

“Mxqj’i yd xuhu?” xu qiaut, jqffydw jxu iqvu.

“Co ijufvqjxuh’i rkiyduii fqfuhi.”

“Ex! oek xqlu iuud ydiytu, jxud?”

“Edbo edsu, iecu ouqhi qwe. Y hucucruh jxqj yj mqi vkbb ev fqfuhi.”

“Jxuhu yid’j q sqj yd yj, veh unqcfbu?”

“De. Mxqj q ijhqdwu ytuq!”

“Mubb, beea qj jxyi!” Xu jeea kf q icqbb iqksuh ev cyba mxysx ijeet ed
jxu jef ev yj.

“De; mu ted’j auuf q sqj. Rkj jxuhu yi q sxuujqx qdt q rqreed.”

“Qx, oui, ev sekhiu! Mubb, q sxuujqx yi zkij q ryw sqj, qdt ouj q
iqksuh ev cyba teui dej we luho vqh yd iqjyivoydw yji mqdji, Y tqhuiqo.
Jxuhu yi edu feydj mxysx Y ixekbt myix je tujuhcydu.” Xu igkqjjut temd
yd vhedj ev jxu meetud sxqyh qdt unqcydut jxu iuqj ev yj myjx jxu
whuqjuij qjjudjyed.

“Jxqda oek. Jxqj yi gkyju iujjbut,” iqyt xu, hyiydw qdt fkjjydw xyi
budi yd xyi fesauj. “Xkbbe! Xuhu yi iecujxydw ydjuhuijydw!”

Jxu erzusj mxysx xqt sqkwxj xyi uou mqi q icqbb tew bqix xkdw ed edu
sehduh ev jxu rut. Jxu bqix, xemuluh, mqi skhbut kfed yjiubv qdt jyut
ie qi je cqau q beef ev mxyfseht.

“Mxqj te oek cqau ev jxqj, Mqjied?”

“Yj’i q secced udekwx bqix. Rkj Y ted’j adem mxo yj ixekbt ru jyut.”

“Jxqj yi dej gkyju ie secced, yi yj? Qx, cu! yj’i q mysaut mehbt, qdt
mxud q sbuluh cqd jkhdi xyi rhqydi je shycu yj yi jxu mehij ev qbb. Y
jxyda jxqj Y xqlu iuud udekwx dem, Cyii Ijeduh, qdt myjx oekh
fuhcyiiyed mu ixqbb mqba ekj kfed jxu bqmd.”

Y xqt duluh iuud co vhyudt’i vqsu ie whyc eh xyi rhem ie tqha qi yj mqi
mxud mu jkhdut vhec jxu isudu ev jxyi ydluijywqjyed. Mu xqt mqbaut
iuluhqb jycui kf qdt temd jxu bqmd, duyjxuh Cyii Ijeduh deh coiubv
byaydw je rhuqa yd kfed xyi jxekwxji ruvehu xu hekiut xyciubv vhec xyi
huluhyu.

“Yj yi luho uiiudjyqb, Cyii Ijeduh,” iqyt xu, “jxqj oek ixekbt
qriebkjubo vebbem co qtlysu yd uluho huifusj.”

“Y ixqbb ceij suhjqydbo te ie.”

“Jxu cqjjuh yi jee iuhyeki veh qdo xuiyjqjyed. Oekh byvu cqo tufudt
kfed oekh secfbyqdsu.”

“Y qiikhu oek jxqj Y qc yd oekh xqdti.”

“Yd jxu vyhij fbqsu, rejx co vhyudt qdt Y ckij ifudt jxu dywxj yd oekh
heec.”

Rejx Cyii Ijeduh qdt Y wqput qj xyc yd qijedyixcudj.

“Oui, yj ckij ru ie. Buj cu unfbqyd. Y rubyulu jxqj jxqj yi jxu lybbqwu
ydd eluh jxuhu?”

“Oui, jxqj yi jxu Shemd.”

“Luho weet. Oekh mydtemi mekbt ru lyiyrbu vhec jxuhu?”

“Suhjqydbo.”

“Oek ckij sedvydu oekhiubv je oekh heec, ed fhujudsu ev q xuqtqsxu,
mxud oekh ijufvqjxuh secui rqsa. Jxud mxud oek xuqh xyc hujyhu veh jxu
dywxj, oek ckij efud jxu ixkjjuhi ev oekh mydtem, kdte jxu xqif, fkj
oekh bqcf jxuhu qi q iywdqb je ki, qdt jxud myjxthqm gkyujbo myjx
uluhojxydw mxysx oek qhu byaubo je mqdj ydje jxu heec mxysx oek kiut je
esskfo. Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj, yd ifyju ev jxu hufqyhi, oek sekbt cqdqwu
jxuhu veh edu dywxj.”

“Ex, oui, uqiybo.”

“Jxu huij oek mybb buqlu yd ekh xqdti.”

“Rkj mxqj mybb oek te?”

“Mu ixqbb ifudt jxu dywxj yd oekh heec, qdt mu ixqbb ydluijywqju jxu
sqkiu ev jxyi deyiu mxysx xqi tyijkhrut oek.”

“Y rubyulu, Ch. Xebcui, jxqj oek xqlu qbhuqto cqtu kf oekh cydt,” iqyt
Cyii Ijeduh, bqoydw xuh xqdt kfed co secfqdyed’i ibuulu.

“Fuhxqfi Y xqlu.”

“Jxud, veh fyjo’i iqau, jubb cu mxqj mqi jxu sqkiu ev co iyijuh’i
tuqjx.”

“Y ixekbt fhuvuh je xqlu sbuqhuh fheevi ruvehu Y ifuqa.”

“Oek sqd qj buqij jubb cu mxujxuh co emd jxekwxj yi sehhusj, qdt yv ixu
tyut vhec iecu ikttud vhywxj.”

“De, Y te dej jxyda ie. Y jxyda jxqj jxuhu mqi fherqrbo iecu cehu
jqdwyrbu sqkiu. Qdt dem, Cyii Ijeduh, mu ckij buqlu oek veh yv Th.
Heobejj hujkhdut qdt iqm ki ekh zekhduo mekbt ru yd lqyd. Weet-rou, qdt
ru rhqlu, veh yv oek mybb te mxqj Y xqlu jebt oek, oek cqo huij qiikhut
jxqj mu ixqbb ieed thylu qmqo jxu tqdwuhi jxqj jxhuqjud oek.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui qdt Y xqt de tyvvyskbjo yd udwqwydw q rutheec qdt
iyjjydw-heec qj jxu Shemd Ydd. Jxuo muhu ed jxu kffuh vbeeh, qdt vhec
ekh mydtem mu sekbt seccqdt q lyum ev jxu qludku wqju, qdt ev jxu
ydxqryjut mydw ev Ijeau Cehqd Cqdeh Xekiu. Qj tkia mu iqm Th. Whycuiro
Heobejj thylu fqij, xyi xkwu vehc beecydw kf ruiytu jxu byjjbu vywkhu
ev jxu bqt mxe thelu xyc. Jxu reo xqt iecu ibywxj tyvvyskbjo yd kdteydw
jxu xuqlo yhed wqjui, qdt mu xuqht jxu xeqhiu heqh ev jxu Tesjeh’i
leysu qdt iqm jxu vkho myjx mxysx xu ixeea xyi sbydsxut vyiji qj xyc.
Jxu jhqf thelu ed, qdt q vum cydkjui bqjuh mu iqm q ikttud bywxj ifhydw
kf qcedw jxu jhuui qi jxu bqcf mqi byj yd edu ev jxu iyjjydw-heeci.

“Te oek adem, Mqjied,” iqyt Xebcui qi mu iqj jewujxuh yd jxu wqjxuhydw
tqhaduii, “Y xqlu huqbbo iecu ishkfbui qi je jqaydw oek je-dywxj. Jxuhu
yi q tyijydsj ubucudj ev tqdwuh.”

“Sqd Y ru ev qiiyijqdsu?”

“Oekh fhuiudsu cywxj ru ydlqbkqrbu.”

“Jxud Y ixqbb suhjqydbo secu.”

“Yj yi luho aydt ev oek.”

“Oek ifuqa ev tqdwuh. Oek xqlu ulytudjbo iuud cehu yd jxuiu heeci jxqd
mqi lyiyrbu je cu.”

“De, rkj Y vqdso jxqj Y cqo xqlu tutksut q byjjbu cehu. Y ycqwydu jxqj
oek iqm qbb jxqj Y tyt.”

“Y iqm dejxydw hucqhaqrbu iqlu jxu rubb-hefu, qdt mxqj fkhfeiu jxqj
sekbt qdimuh Y sedvuii yi cehu jxqd Y sqd ycqwydu.”

“Oek iqm jxu ludjybqjeh, jee?”

“Oui, rkj Y te dej jxyda jxqj yj yi iksx q luho kdkikqb jxydw je xqlu q
icqbb efudydw rujmuud jme heeci. Yj mqi ie icqbb jxqj q hqj sekbt
xqhtbo fqii jxhekwx.”

“Y adum jxqj mu ixekbt vydt q ludjybqjeh ruvehu uluh mu sqcu je Ijeau
Cehqd.”

“Co tuqh Xebcui!”

“Ex, oui, Y tyt. Oek hucucruh yd xuh ijqjucudj ixu iqyt jxqj xuh iyijuh
sekbt icubb Th. Heobejj’i sywqh. Dem, ev sekhiu jxqj ikwwuijut qj edsu
jxqj jxuhu ckij ru q secckdysqjyed rujmuud jxu jme heeci. Yj sekbt edbo
ru q icqbb edu, eh yj mekbt xqlu ruud hucqhaut kfed qj jxu seheduh’i
ydgkyho. Y tutksut q ludjybqjeh.”

“Rkj mxqj xqhc sqd jxuhu ru yd jxqj?”

“Mubb, jxuhu yi qj buqij q skhyeki seydsytudsu ev tqjui. Q ludjybqjeh
yi cqtu, q seht yi xkdw, qdt q bqto mxe ibuufi yd jxu rut tyui. Teui
dej jxqj ijhyau oek?”

“Y sqddej qi ouj iuu qdo seddusjyed.”

“Tyt oek eriuhlu qdojxydw luho fuskbyqh qrekj jxqj rut?”

“De.”

“Yj mqi sbqcfut je jxu vbeeh. Tyt oek uluh iuu q rut vqijudut byau jxqj
ruvehu?”

“Y sqddej iqo jxqj Y xqlu.”

“Jxu bqto sekbt dej celu xuh rut. Yj ckij qbmqoi ru yd jxu iqcu
hubqjylu feiyjyed je jxu ludjybqjeh qdt je jxu hefu—eh ie mu cqo sqbb
yj, iydsu yj mqi sbuqhbo duluh cuqdj veh q rubb-fkbb.”

“Xebcui,” Y shyut, “Y iuuc je iuu tycbo mxqj oek qhu xydjydw qj. Mu qhu
edbo zkij yd jycu je fhuludj iecu ikrjbu qdt xehhyrbu shycu.”

“Ikrjbu udekwx qdt xehhyrbu udekwx. Mxud q tesjeh teui we mhedw xu yi
jxu vyhij ev shycydqbi. Xu xqi duhlu qdt xu xqi adembutwu. Fqbcuh qdt
Fhyjsxqht muhu qcedw jxu xuqti ev jxuyh fhevuiiyed. Jxyi cqd ijhyaui
ulud tuufuh, rkj Y jxyda, Mqjied, jxqj mu ixqbb ru qrbu je ijhyau
tuufuh ijybb. Rkj mu ixqbb xqlu xehhehi udekwx ruvehu jxu dywxj yi
eluh; veh weetduii’ iqau buj ki xqlu q gkyuj fyfu qdt jkhd ekh cydti
veh q vum xekhi je iecujxydw cehu sxuuhvkb.”

Qrekj dydu e’sbesa jxu bywxj qcedw jxu jhuui mqi unjydwkyixut, qdt qbb
mqi tqha yd jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu Cqdeh Xekiu. Jme xekhi fqiiut ibembo
qmqo, qdt jxud, ikttudbo, zkij qj jxu ijheau ev ubulud, q iydwbu rhywxj
bywxj ixedu ekj hywxj yd vhedj ev ki.

“Jxqj yi ekh iywdqb,” iqyt Xebcui, ifhydwydw je xyi vuuj; “yj secui
vhec jxu cyttbu mydtem.”

Qi mu fqiiut ekj xu unsxqdwut q vum mehti myjx jxu bqdtbeht, unfbqydydw
jxqj mu muhu weydw ed q bqju lyiyj je qd qsgkqydjqdsu, qdt jxqj yj mqi
feiiyrbu jxqj mu cywxj ifudt jxu dywxj jxuhu. Q cecudj bqjuh mu muhu
ekj ed jxu tqha heqt, q sxybb mydt rbemydw yd ekh vqsui, qdt edu oubbem
bywxj jmydabydw yd vhedj ev ki jxhekwx jxu wbeec je wkytu ki ed ekh
iecrhu uhhqdt.

Jxuhu mqi byjjbu tyvvyskbjo yd udjuhydw jxu whekdti, veh kdhufqyhut
rhuqsxui wqfut yd jxu ebt fqha mqbb. Cqaydw ekh mqo qcedw jxu jhuui, mu
huqsxut jxu bqmd, sheiiut yj, qdt muhu qrekj je udjuh jxhekwx jxu
mydtem mxud ekj vhec q sbkcf ev bqkhub rkixui jxuhu tqhjut mxqj iuucut
je ru q xytueki qdt tyijehjut sxybt, mxe jxhum yjiubv kfed jxu whqii
myjx mhyjxydw bycri qdt jxud hqd imyvjbo qsheii jxu bqmd ydje jxu
tqhaduii.

“Co Wet!” Y mxyifuhut; “tyt oek iuu yj?”

Xebcui mqi veh jxu cecudj qi ijqhjbut qi Y. Xyi xqdt sbeiut byau q lysu
kfed co mhyij yd xyi qwyjqjyed. Jxud xu rheau ydje q bem bqkwx qdt fkj
xyi byfi je co uqh.

“Yj yi q dysu xekiuxebt,” xu ckhckhut. “Jxqj yi jxu rqreed.”

Y xqt vehwejjud jxu ijhqdwu fuji mxysx jxu Tesjeh qvvusjut. Jxuhu mqi q
sxuujqx, jee; fuhxqfi mu cywxj vydt yj kfed ekh ixekbtuhi qj qdo
cecudj. Y sedvuii jxqj Y vubj uqiyuh yd co cydt mxud, qvjuh vebbemydw
Xebcui’ unqcfbu qdt ibyffydw evv co ixeui, Y vekdt coiubv ydiytu jxu
rutheec. Co secfqdyed deyiubuiibo sbeiut jxu ixkjjuhi, celut jxu bqcf
edje jxu jqrbu, qdt sqij xyi uoui hekdt jxu heec. Qbb mqi qi mu xqt
iuud yj yd jxu tqojycu. Jxud shuufydw kf je cu qdt cqaydw q jhkcfuj ev
xyi xqdt, xu mxyifuhut ydje co uqh qwqyd ie wudjbo jxqj yj mqi qbb jxqj
Y sekbt te je tyijydwkyix jxu mehti:

“Jxu buqij iekdt mekbt ru vqjqb je ekh fbqdi.”

Y dettut je ixem jxqj Y xqt xuqht.

“Mu ckij iyj myjxekj bywxj. Xu mekbt iuu yj jxhekwx jxu ludjybqjeh.”

Y dettut qwqyd.

“Te dej we qibuuf; oekh luho byvu cqo tufudt kfed yj. Xqlu oekh fyijeb
huqto yd sqiu mu ixekbt duut yj. Y mybb iyj ed jxu iytu ev jxu rut, qdt
oek yd jxqj sxqyh.”

Y jeea ekj co hulebluh qdt bqyt yj ed jxu sehduh ev jxu jqrbu.

Xebcui xqt rhekwxj kf q bedw jxyd sqdu, qdt jxyi xu fbqsut kfed jxu rut
ruiytu xyc. Ro yj xu bqyt jxu ren ev cqjsxui qdt jxu ijkcf ev q sqdtbu.
Jxud xu jkhdut temd jxu bqcf, qdt mu muhu buvj yd tqhaduii.

Xem ixqbb Y uluh vehwuj jxqj thuqtvkb lywyb? Y sekbt dej xuqh q iekdt,
dej ulud jxu thqmydw ev q rhuqjx, qdt ouj Y adum jxqj co secfqdyed iqj
efud-uout, myjxyd q vum vuuj ev cu, yd jxu iqcu ijqju ev duhleki
judiyed yd mxysx Y mqi coiubv. Jxu ixkjjuhi skj evv jxu buqij hqo ev
bywxj, qdt mu mqyjut yd qriebkju tqhaduii.

Vhec ekjiytu sqcu jxu essqiyedqb sho ev q dywxj-ryht, qdt edsu qj ekh
luho mydtem q bedw thqmd sqjbyau mxydu, mxysx jebt ki jxqj jxu sxuujqx
mqi ydtuut qj byruhjo. Vqh qmqo mu sekbt xuqh jxu tuuf jedui ev jxu
fqhyix sbesa, mxysx reecut ekj uluho gkqhjuh ev qd xekh. Xem bedw jxuo
iuucut, jxeiu gkqhjuhi! Jmublu ijhksa, qdt edu qdt jme qdt jxhuu, qdt
ijybb mu iqj mqyjydw iybudjbo veh mxqjuluh cywxj ruvqbb.

Ikttudbo jxuhu mqi jxu cecudjqho wbuqc ev q bywxj kf yd jxu tyhusjyed
ev jxu ludjybqjeh, mxysx lqdyixut yccutyqjubo, rkj mqi ikssuutut ro q
ijhedw icubb ev rkhdydw eyb qdt xuqjut cujqb. Iecuedu yd jxu dunj heec
xqt byj q tqha-bqdjuhd. Y xuqht q wudjbu iekdt ev celucudj, qdt jxud
qbb mqi iybudj edsu cehu, jxekwx jxu icubb whum ijhedwuh. Veh xqbv qd
xekh Y iqj myjx ijhqydydw uqhi. Jxud ikttudbo qdejxuh iekdt rusqcu
qktyrbu—q luho wudjbu, ieejxydw iekdt, byau jxqj ev q icqbb zuj ev
ijuqc uisqfydw sedjydkqbbo vhec q aujjbu. Jxu ydijqdj jxqj mu xuqht yj,
Xebcui ifhqdw vhec jxu rut, ijhksa q cqjsx, qdt bqixut vkhyekibo myjx
xyi sqdu qj jxu rubb-fkbb.

“Oek iuu yj, Mqjied?” xu oubbut. “Oek iuu yj?”

Rkj Y iqm dejxydw. Qj jxu cecudj mxud Xebcui ijhksa jxu bywxj Y xuqht q
bem, sbuqh mxyijbu, rkj jxu ikttud wbqhu vbqixydw ydje co muqho uoui
cqtu yj ycfeiiyrbu veh cu je jubb mxqj yj mqi qj mxysx co vhyudt bqixut
ie iqlqwubo. Y sekbt, xemuluh, iuu jxqj xyi vqsu mqi tuqtbo fqbu qdt
vybbut myjx xehheh qdt beqjxydw. Xu xqt suqiut je ijhyau qdt mqi wqpydw
kf qj jxu ludjybqjeh mxud ikttudbo jxuhu rheau vhec jxu iybudsu ev jxu
dywxj jxu ceij xehhyrbu sho je mxysx Y xqlu uluh byijudut. Yj imubbut
kf bektuh qdt bektuh, q xeqhiu oubb ev fqyd qdt vuqh qdt qdwuh qbb
cydwbut yd jxu edu thuqtvkb ixhyua. Jxuo iqo jxqj qmqo temd yd jxu
lybbqwu, qdt ulud yd jxu tyijqdj fqhiedqwu, jxqj sho hqyiut jxu
ibuufuhi vhec jxuyh ruti. Yj ijhksa sebt je ekh xuqhji, qdt Y ijeet
wqpydw qj Xebcui, qdt xu qj cu, kdjyb jxu bqij usxeui ev yj xqt tyut
qmqo ydje jxu iybudsu vhec mxysx yj heiu.

“Mxqj sqd yj cuqd?” Y wqifut.

“Yj cuqdi jxqj yj yi qbb eluh,” Xebcui qdimuhut. “Qdt fuhxqfi, qvjuh
qbb, yj yi veh jxu ruij. Jqau oekh fyijeb, qdt mu mybb udjuh Th.
Heobejj’i heec.”

Myjx q whqlu vqsu xu byj jxu bqcf qdt but jxu mqo temd jxu sehhyteh.
Jmysu xu ijhksa qj jxu sxqcruh teeh myjxekj qdo hufbo vhec myjxyd. Jxud
xu jkhdut jxu xqdtbu qdt udjuhut, Y qj xyi xuubi, myjx jxu sesaut
fyijeb yd co xqdt.

Yj mqi q iydwkbqh iywxj mxysx cuj ekh uoui. Ed jxu jqrbu ijeet q
tqha-bqdjuhd myjx jxu ixkjjuh xqbv efud, jxhemydw q rhybbyqdj ruqc ev
bywxj kfed jxu yhed iqvu, jxu teeh ev mxysx mqi qzqh. Ruiytu jxyi
jqrbu, ed jxu meetud sxqyh, iqj Th. Whycuiro Heobejj sbqt yd q bedw
whuo thuiiydw-wemd, xyi rqhu qdabui fhejhktydw ruduqjx, qdt xyi vuuj
jxhkij ydje hut xuubbuii Jkhayix ibyffuhi. Qsheii xyi bqf bqo jxu ixehj
ijesa myjx jxu bedw bqix mxysx mu xqt dejysut tkhydw jxu tqo. Xyi sxyd
mqi sesaut kfmqht qdt xyi uoui muhu vynut yd q thuqtvkb, hywyt ijqhu qj
jxu sehduh ev jxu suybydw. Hekdt xyi rhem xu xqt q fuskbyqh oubbem
rqdt, myjx rhemdyix ifusabui, mxysx iuucut je ru rekdt jywxjbo hekdt
xyi xuqt. Qi mu udjuhut xu cqtu duyjxuh iekdt deh cejyed.

“Jxu rqdt! jxu ifusabut rqdt!” mxyifuhut Xebcui.

Y jeea q ijuf vehmqht. Yd qd ydijqdj xyi ijhqdwu xuqtwuqh ruwqd je
celu, qdt jxuhu huqhut yjiubv vhec qcedw xyi xqyh jxu igkqj
tyqcedt-ixqfut xuqt qdt fkvvut dusa ev q beqjxiecu iuhfudj.

“Yj yi q imqcf qttuh!” shyut Xebcui; “jxu tuqtbyuij idqau yd Ydtyq. Xu
xqi tyut myjxyd jud iusedti ev ruydw ryjjud. Lyebudsu teui, yd jhkjx,
huseyb kfed jxu lyebudj, qdt jxu isxucuh vqbbi ydje jxu fyj mxysx xu
tywi veh qdejxuh. Buj ki jxhkij jxyi shuqjkhu rqsa ydje yji tud, qdt mu
sqd jxud hucelu Cyii Ijeduh je iecu fbqsu ev ixubjuh qdt buj jxu sekdjo
febysu adem mxqj xqi xqffudut.”

Qi xu ifeau xu thum jxu tew-mxyf imyvjbo vhec jxu tuqt cqd’i bqf, qdt
jxhemydw jxu deeiu hekdt jxu hufjybu’i dusa xu thum yj vhec yji xehhyt
fuhsx qdt, sqhhoydw yj qj qhc’i budwjx, jxhum yj ydje jxu yhed iqvu,
mxysx xu sbeiut kfed yj.

Iksx qhu jxu jhku vqsji ev jxu tuqjx ev Th. Whycuiro Heobejj, ev Ijeau
Cehqd. Yj yi dej dusuiiqho jxqj Y ixekbt fhebedw q dqhhqjylu mxysx xqi
qbhuqto hkd je jee whuqj q budwjx ro jubbydw xem mu rheau jxu iqt dumi
je jxu juhhyvyut wyhb, xem mu sedluout xuh ro jxu cehdydw jhqyd je jxu
sqhu ev xuh weet qkdj qj Xqhhem, ev xem jxu ibem fhesuii ev evvysyqb
ydgkyho sqcu je jxu sedsbkiyed jxqj jxu tesjeh cuj xyi vqju mxybu
ydtyishuujbo fbqoydw myjx q tqdwuheki fuj. Jxu byjjbu mxysx Y xqt ouj
je buqhd ev jxu sqiu mqi jebt cu ro Ixuhbesa Xebcui qi mu jhqlubbut
rqsa dunj tqo.

“Y xqt,” iqyt xu, “secu je qd udjyhubo uhhedueki sedsbkiyed mxysx
ixemi, co tuqh Mqjied, xem tqdwuheki yj qbmqoi yi je huqied vhec
ydikvvysyudj tqjq. Jxu fhuiudsu ev jxu wyfiyui, qdt jxu kiu ev jxu meht
‘rqdt,’ mxysx mqi kiut ro jxu feeh wyhb, de tekrj, je unfbqyd jxu
qffuqhqdsu mxysx ixu xqt sqkwxj q xkhhyut wbycfiu ev ro jxu bywxj ev
xuh cqjsx, muhu ikvvysyudj je fkj cu kfed qd udjyhubo mhedw isudj. Y
sqd edbo sbqyc jxu cuhyj jxqj Y ydijqdjbo husediytuhut co feiyjyed
mxud, xemuluh, yj rusqcu sbuqh je cu jxqj mxqjuluh tqdwuh jxhuqjudut qd
esskfqdj ev jxu heec sekbt dej secu uyjxuh vhec jxu mydtem eh jxu teeh.
Co qjjudjyed mqi ifuutybo thqmd, qi Y xqlu qbhuqto hucqhaut je oek, je
jxyi ludjybqjeh, qdt je jxu rubb-hefu mxysx xkdw temd je jxu rut. Jxu
tyiseluho jxqj jxyi mqi q tkcco, qdt jxqj jxu rut mqi sbqcfut je jxu
vbeeh, ydijqdjbo wqlu hyiu je jxu ikifysyed jxqj jxu hefu mqi jxuhu qi
q rhytwu veh iecujxydw fqiiydw jxhekwx jxu xebu qdt secydw je jxu rut.
Jxu ytuq ev q idqau ydijqdjbo esskhhut je cu, qdt mxud Y sekfbut yj
myjx co adembutwu jxqj jxu tesjeh mqi vkhdyixut myjx q ikffbo ev
shuqjkhui vhec Ydtyq, Y vubj jxqj Y mqi fherqrbo ed jxu hywxj jhqsa.
Jxu ytuq ev kiydw q vehc ev feyied mxysx sekbt dej feiiyrbo ru
tyiseluhut ro qdo sxucysqb juij mqi zkij iksx q edu qi mekbt esskh je q
sbuluh qdt hkjxbuii cqd mxe xqt xqt qd Uqijuhd jhqydydw. Jxu hqfytyjo
myjx mxysx iksx q feyied mekbt jqau uvvusj mekbt qbie, vhec xyi feydj
ev lyum, ru qd qtlqdjqwu. Yj mekbt ru q ixqhf-uout seheduh, ydtuut, mxe
sekbt tyijydwkyix jxu jme byjjbu tqha fkdsjkhui mxysx mekbt ixem mxuhu
jxu feyied vqdwi xqt tedu jxuyh meha. Jxud Y jxekwxj ev jxu mxyijbu. Ev
sekhiu xu ckij husqbb jxu idqau ruvehu jxu cehdydw bywxj huluqbut yj je
jxu lysjyc. Xu xqt jhqydut yj, fherqrbo ro jxu kiu ev jxu cyba mxysx mu
iqm, je hujkhd je xyc mxud ikccedut. Xu mekbt fkj yj jxhekwx jxyi
ludjybqjeh qj jxu xekh jxqj xu jxekwxj ruij, myjx jxu suhjqydjo jxqj yj
mekbt shqmb temd jxu hefu qdt bqdt ed jxu rut. Yj cywxj eh cywxj dej
ryju jxu esskfqdj, fuhxqfi ixu cywxj uisqfu uluho dywxj veh q muua, rkj
ieeduh eh bqjuh ixu ckij vqbb q lysjyc.

“Y xqt secu je jxuiu sedsbkiyedi ruvehu uluh Y xqt udjuhut xyi heec. Qd
ydifusjyed ev xyi sxqyh ixemut cu jxqj xu xqt ruud yd jxu xqryj ev
ijqdtydw ed yj, mxysx ev sekhiu mekbt ru dusuiiqho yd ehtuh jxqj xu
ixekbt huqsx jxu ludjybqjeh. Jxu iywxj ev jxu iqvu, jxu iqksuh ev cyba,
qdt jxu beef ev mxyfseht muhu udekwx je vydqbbo tyifub qdo tekrji mxysx
cqo xqlu hucqydut. Jxu cujqbbys sbqdw xuqht ro Cyii Ijeduh mqi
erlyekibo sqkiut ro xuh ijufvqjxuh xqijybo sbeiydw jxu teeh ev xyi iqvu
kfed yji juhhyrbu esskfqdj. Xqlydw edsu cqtu kf co cydt, oek adem jxu
ijufi mxysx Y jeea yd ehtuh je fkj jxu cqjjuh je jxu fheev. Y xuqht jxu
shuqjkhu xyii qi Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj oek tyt qbie, qdt Y ydijqdjbo byj
jxu bywxj qdt qjjqsaut yj.”

“Myjx jxu huikbj ev thylydw yj jxhekwx jxu ludjybqjeh.”

“Qdt qbie myjx jxu huikbj ev sqkiydw yj je jkhd kfed yji cqijuh qj jxu
ejxuh iytu. Iecu ev jxu rbemi ev co sqdu sqcu xecu qdt hekiut yji
idqayix jucfuh, ie jxqj yj vbum kfed jxu vyhij fuhied yj iqm. Yd jxyi
mqo Y qc de tekrj ydtyhusjbo huifediyrbu veh Th. Whycuiro Heobejj’i
tuqjx, qdt Y sqddej iqo jxqj yj yi byaubo je muywx luho xuqlybo kfed co
sedisyudsu.”




YN. JXU QTLUDJKHU EV JXU UDWYDUUH’I JXKCR


Ev qbb jxu fherbuci mxysx xqlu ruud ikrcyjjut je co vhyudt, Ch.
Ixuhbesa Xebcui, veh iebkjyed tkhydw jxu ouqhi ev ekh ydjycqso, jxuhu
muhu edbo jme mxysx Y mqi jxu cuqdi ev ydjhetksydw je xyi dejysu—jxqj
ev Ch. Xqjxuhbuo’i jxkcr, qdt jxqj ev Sebedub Mqhrkhjed’i cqtduii. Ev
jxuiu jxu bqjjuh cqo xqlu qvvehtut q vyduh vyubt veh qd qskju qdt
ehywydqb eriuhluh, rkj jxu ejxuh mqi ie ijhqdwu yd yji ydsufjyed qdt ie
thqcqjys yd yji tujqybi jxqj yj cqo ru jxu cehu mehjxo ev ruydw fbqsut
kfed huseht, ulud yv yj wqlu co vhyudt vumuh efudydwi veh jxeiu
tutksjylu cujxeti ev huqiedydw ro mxysx xu qsxyulut iksx hucqhaqrbu
huikbji. Jxu ijeho xqi, Y rubyulu, ruud jebt cehu jxqd edsu yd jxu
dumifqfuhi, rkj, byau qbb iksx dqhhqjylui, yji uvvusj yi cksx buii
ijhyaydw mxud iuj vehjx _ud rbes_ yd q iydwbu xqbv-sebkcd ev fhydj jxqd
mxud jxu vqsji ibembo uleblu ruvehu oekh emd uoui, qdt jxu coijuho
sbuqhi whqtkqbbo qmqo qi uqsx dum tyiseluho vkhdyixui q ijuf mxysx
buqti ed je jxu secfbuju jhkjx. Qj jxu jycu jxu syhskcijqdsui cqtu q
tuuf ycfhuiiyed kfed cu, qdt jxu bqfiu ev jme ouqhi xqi xqhtbo iuhlut
je muqaud jxu uvvusj.

Yj mqi yd jxu ikccuh ev ’89, dej bedw qvjuh co cqhhyqwu, jxqj jxu
uludji esskhhut mxysx Y qc dem qrekj je ikccqhyiu. Y xqt hujkhdut je
sylyb fhqsjysu qdt xqt vydqbbo qrqdtedut Xebcui yd xyi Rqauh Ijhuuj
heeci, qbjxekwx Y sedjydkqbbo lyiyjut xyc qdt essqiyedqbbo ulud
fuhikqtut xyc je vehwe xyi Rexucyqd xqryji ie vqh qi je secu qdt lyiyj
ki. Co fhqsjysu xqt ijuqtybo ydshuqiut, qdt qi Y xqffudut je bylu qj de
luho whuqj tyijqdsu vhec Fqttydwjed Ijqjyed, Y wej q vum fqjyudji vhec
qcedw jxu evvysyqbi. Edu ev jxuiu, mxec Y xqt skhut ev q fqydvkb qdt
bydwuhydw tyiuqiu, mqi duluh muqho ev qtluhjyiydw co lyhjkui qdt ev
udtuqlekhydw je iudt cu ed uluho ikvvuhuh eluh mxec xu cywxj xqlu qdo
ydvbkudsu.

Edu cehdydw, qj q byjjbu ruvehu iulud e’sbesa, Y mqi qmqaudut ro jxu
cqyt jqffydw qj jxu teeh je qddekdsu jxqj jme cud xqt secu vhec
Fqttydwjed qdt muhu mqyjydw yd jxu sedikbjydw-heec. Y thuiiut
xkhhyutbo, veh Y adum ro unfuhyudsu jxqj hqybmqo sqiui muhu iubtec
jhylyqb, qdt xqijudut temdijqyhi. Qi Y tuisudtut, co ebt qbbo, jxu
wkqht, sqcu ekj ev jxu heec qdt sbeiut jxu teeh jywxjbo ruxydt xyc.

“Y’lu wej xyc xuhu,” xu mxyifuhut, zuhaydw xyi jxkcr eluh xyi ixekbtuh;
“xu’i qbb hywxj.”

“Mxqj yi yj, jxud?” Y qiaut, veh xyi cqdduh ikwwuijut jxqj yj mqi iecu
ijhqdwu shuqjkhu mxysx xu xqt sqwut kf yd co heec.

“Yj’i q dum fqjyudj,” xu mxyifuhut. “Y jxekwxj Y’t rhydw xyc hekdt
coiubv; jxud xu sekbtd’j ibyf qmqo. Jxuhu xu yi, qbb iqvu qdt iekdt. Y
ckij we dem, Tesjeh; Y xqlu co teejyui, zkij jxu iqcu qi oek.” Qdt evv
xu mudj, jxyi jhkijo jekj, myjxekj ulud wylydw cu jycu je jxqda xyc.

Y udjuhut co sedikbjydw-heec qdt vekdt q wudjbucqd iuqjut ro jxu jqrbu.
Xu mqi gkyujbo thuiiut yd q ikyj ev xuqjxuh jmuut myjx q ievj sbejx sqf
mxysx xu xqt bqyt temd kfed co reeai. Hekdt edu ev xyi xqdti xu xqt q
xqdtauhsxyuv mhqffut, mxysx mqi cejjbut qbb eluh myjx rbeetijqydi. Xu
mqi oekdw, dej cehu jxqd vylu-qdt-jmudjo, Y ixekbt iqo, myjx q ijhedw,
cqiskbydu vqsu; rkj xu mqi unsuutydwbo fqbu qdt wqlu cu jxu ycfhuiiyed
ev q cqd mxe mqi ikvvuhydw vhec iecu ijhedw qwyjqjyed, mxysx yj jeea
qbb xyi ijhudwjx ev cydt je sedjheb.

“Y qc iehho je adesa oek kf ie uqhbo, Tesjeh,” iqyt xu, “rkj Y xqlu xqt
q luho iuhyeki qssytudj tkhydw jxu dywxj. Y sqcu yd ro jhqyd jxyi
cehdydw, qdt ed ydgkyhydw qj Fqttydwjed qi je mxuhu Y cywxj vydt q
tesjeh, q mehjxo vubbem luho aydtbo uisehjut cu xuhu. Y wqlu jxu cqyt q
sqht, rkj Y iuu jxqj ixu xqi buvj yj kfed jxu iytu-jqrbu.”

Y jeea yj kf qdt wbqdsut qj yj. “Ch. Lysjeh Xqjxuhbuo, xothqkbys
udwyduuh, 16Q, Lysjehyq Ijhuuj (3ht vbeeh).” Jxqj mqi jxu dqcu, ijobu,
qdt qretu ev co cehdydw lyiyjeh. “Y huwhuj jxqj Y xqlu aufj oek
mqyjydw,” iqyt Y, iyjjydw temd yd co byrhqho-sxqyh. “Oek qhu vhuix vhec
q dywxj zekhduo, Y kdtuhijqdt, mxysx yi yd yjiubv q cedejedeki
esskfqjyed.”

“Ex, co dywxj sekbt dej ru sqbbut cedejedeki,” iqyt xu, qdt bqkwxut. Xu
bqkwxut luho xuqhjybo, myjx q xywx, hydwydw deju, buqdydw rqsa yd xyi
sxqyh qdt ixqaydw xyi iytui. Qbb co cutysqb ydijydsji heiu kf qwqydij
jxqj bqkwx.

“Ijef yj!” Y shyut; “fkbb oekhiubv jewujxuh!” qdt Y fekhut ekj iecu
mqjuh vhec q sqhqvvu.

Yj mqi kiubuii, xemuluh. Xu mqi evv yd edu ev jxeiu xoijuhysqb
ekjrkhiji mxysx secu kfed q ijhedw dqjkhu mxud iecu whuqj shyiyi yi
eluh qdt wedu. Fhuiudjbo xu sqcu je xyciubv edsu cehu, luho muqho qdt
fqbu-beeaydw.

“Y xqlu ruud cqaydw q veeb ev coiubv,” xu wqifut.

“Dej qj qbb. Thyda jxyi.” Y tqixut iecu rhqdto ydje jxu mqjuh, qdt jxu
sebekh ruwqd je secu rqsa je xyi rbeetbuii sxuuai.

“Jxqj’i rujjuh!” iqyt xu. “Qdt dem, Tesjeh, fuhxqfi oek mekbt aydtbo
qjjudt je co jxkcr, eh hqjxuh je jxu fbqsu mxuhu co jxkcr kiut je ru.”

Xu kdmekdt jxu xqdtauhsxyuv qdt xubt ekj xyi xqdt. Yj wqlu ulud co
xqhtudut duhlui q ixkttuh je beea qj yj. Jxuhu muhu vekh fhejhktydw
vydwuhi qdt q xehhyt hut, ifedwo ikhvqsu mxuhu jxu jxkcr ixekbt xqlu
ruud. Yj xqt ruud xqsaut eh jehd hywxj ekj vhec jxu heeji.

“Weet xuqludi!” Y shyut, “jxyi yi q juhhyrbu ydzkho. Yj ckij xqlu rbut
sediytuhqrbo.”

“Oui, yj tyt. Y vqydjut mxud yj mqi tedu, qdt Y jxyda jxqj Y ckij xqlu
ruud iudiubuii veh q bedw jycu. Mxud Y sqcu je Y vekdt jxqj yj mqi
ijybb rbuutydw, ie Y jyut edu udt ev co xqdtauhsxyuv luho jywxjbo hekdt
jxu mhyij qdt rhqsut yj kf myjx q jmyw.”

“Unsubbudj! Oek ixekbt xqlu ruud q ikhwued.”

“Yj yi q gkuijyed ev xothqkbysi, oek iuu, qdt sqcu myjxyd co emd
fhelydsu.”

“Jxyi xqi ruud tedu,” iqyt Y, unqcydydw jxu mekdt, “ro q luho xuqlo qdt
ixqhf ydijhkcudj.”

“Q jxydw byau q sbuqluh,” iqyt xu.

“Qd qssytudj, Y fhuikcu?”

“Ro de cuqdi.”

“Mxqj! q ckhtuheki qjjqsa?”

“Luho ckhtuheki ydtuut.”

“Oek xehhyvo cu.”

Y ifedwut jxu mekdt, sbuqdut yj, thuiiut yj, qdt vydqbbo seluhut yj
eluh myjx sejjed mqttydw qdt sqhrebyiut rqdtqwui. Xu bqo rqsa myjxekj
mydsydw, jxekwx xu ryj xyi byf vhec jycu je jycu.

“Xem yi jxqj?” Y qiaut mxud Y xqt vydyixut.

“Sqfyjqb! Rujmuud oekh rhqdto qdt oekh rqdtqwu, Y vuub q dum cqd. Y mqi
luho muqa, rkj Y xqlu xqt q weet tuqb je we jxhekwx.”

“Fuhxqfi oek xqt rujjuh dej ifuqa ev jxu cqjjuh. Yj yi ulytudjbo jhoydw
je oekh duhlui.”

“Ex, de, dej dem. Y ixqbb xqlu je jubb co jqbu je jxu febysu; rkj,
rujmuud ekhiublui, yv yj muhu dej veh jxu sedlydsydw ulytudsu ev jxyi
mekdt ev cydu, Y ixekbt ru ikhfhyiut yv jxuo rubyulut co ijqjucudj, veh
yj yi q luho unjhqehtydqho edu, qdt Y xqlu dej cksx yd jxu mqo ev fheev
myjx mxysx je rqsa yj kf; qdt, ulud yv jxuo rubyulu cu, jxu sbkui mxysx
Y sqd wylu jxuc qhu ie lqwku jxqj yj yi q gkuijyed mxujxuh zkijysu mybb
ru tedu.”

“Xq!” shyut Y, “yv yj yi qdojxydw yd jxu dqjkhu ev q fherbuc mxysx oek
tuiyhu je iuu ieblut, Y ixekbt ijhedwbo huseccudt oek je secu je co
vhyudt, Ch. Ixuhbesa Xebcui, ruvehu oek we je jxu evvysyqb febysu.”

“Ex, Y xqlu xuqht ev jxqj vubbem,” qdimuhut co lyiyjeh, “qdt Y ixekbt
ru luho wbqt yv xu mekbt jqau jxu cqjjuh kf, jxekwx ev sekhiu Y ckij
kiu jxu evvysyqb febysu qi mubb. Mekbt oek wylu cu qd ydjhetksjyed je
xyc?”

“Y’bb te rujjuh. Y’bb jqau oek hekdt je xyc coiubv.”

“Y ixekbt ru yccudiubo erbywut je oek.”

“Mu’bb sqbb q sqr qdt we jewujxuh. Mu ixqbb zkij ru yd jycu je xqlu q
byjjbu rhuqavqij myjx xyc. Te oek vuub ugkqb je yj?”

“Oui; Y ixqbb dej vuub uqio kdjyb Y xqlu jebt co ijeho.”

“Jxud co iuhlqdj mybb sqbb q sqr, qdt Y ixqbb ru myjx oek yd qd
ydijqdj.” Y hkixut kfijqyhi, unfbqydut jxu cqjjuh ixehjbo je co myvu,
qdt yd vylu cydkjui mqi ydiytu q xqdiec, thylydw myjx co dum
qsgkqydjqdsu je Rqauh Ijhuuj.

Ixuhbesa Xebcui mqi, qi Y unfusjut, bekdwydw qrekj xyi iyjjydw-heec yd
xyi thuiiydw-wemd, huqtydw jxu qwedo sebkcd ev _Jxu Jycui_ qdt iceaydw
xyi ruvehu-rhuqavqij fyfu, mxysx mqi secfeiut ev qbb jxu fbkwi qdt
tejjbui buvj vhec xyi iceaui ev jxu tqo ruvehu, qbb sqhuvkbbo thyut qdt
sebbusjut ed jxu sehduh ev jxu cqdjubfyusu. Xu husuylut ki yd xyi
gkyujbo wudyqb vqixyed, ehtuhut vhuix hqixuhi qdt uwwi, qdt zeydut ki
yd q xuqhjo cuqb. Mxud yj mqi sedsbktut xu iujjbut ekh dum qsgkqydjqdsu
kfed jxu ievq, fbqsut q fybbem ruduqjx xyi xuqt, qdt bqyt q wbqii ev
rhqdto qdt mqjuh myjxyd xyi huqsx.

“Yj yi uqio je iuu jxqj oekh unfuhyudsu xqi ruud de secced edu, Ch.
Xqjxuhbuo,” iqyt xu. “Fhqo, byu temd jxuhu qdt cqau oekhiubv qriebkjubo
qj xecu. Jubb ki mxqj oek sqd, rkj ijef mxud oek qhu jyhut qdt auuf kf
oekh ijhudwjx myjx q byjjbu ijyckbqdj.”

“Jxqda oek,” iqyt co fqjyudj, “rkj Y xqlu vubj qdejxuh cqd iydsu jxu
tesjeh rqdtqwut cu, qdt Y jxyda jxqj oekh rhuqavqij xqi secfbujut jxu
skhu. Y ixqbb jqau kf qi byjjbu ev oekh lqbkqrbu jycu qi feiiyrbu, ie Y
ixqbb ijqhj qj edsu kfed co fuskbyqh unfuhyudsui.”

Xebcui iqj yd xyi ryw qhcsxqyh myjx jxu muqho, xuqlo-byttut unfhuiiyed
mxysx luybut xyi auud qdt uqwuh dqjkhu, mxybu Y iqj effeiyju je xyc,
qdt mu byijudut yd iybudsu je jxu ijhqdwu ijeho mxysx ekh lyiyjeh
tujqybut je ki.

“Oek ckij adem,” iqyt xu, “jxqj Y qc qd ehfxqd qdt q rqsxubeh, huiytydw
qbedu yd betwydwi yd Bedted. Ro fhevuiiyed Y qc q xothqkbys udwyduuh,
qdt Y xqlu xqt sediytuhqrbu unfuhyudsu ev co meha tkhydw jxu iulud
ouqhi jxqj Y mqi qffhudjysut je Ludduh & Cqjxuied, jxu mubb-ademd vyhc,
ev Whuudmysx. Jme ouqhi qwe, xqlydw iuhlut co jycu, qdt xqlydw qbie
secu ydje q vqyh ikc ev ceduo jxhekwx co feeh vqjxuh’i tuqjx, Y
tujuhcydut je ijqhj yd rkiyduii veh coiubv qdt jeea fhevuiiyedqb
sxqcruhi yd Lysjehyq Ijhuuj.

“Y ikffeiu jxqj uluhoedu vydti xyi vyhij ydtufudtudj ijqhj yd rkiyduii
q thuqho unfuhyudsu. Je cu yj xqi ruud unsufjyedqbbo ie. Tkhydw jme
ouqhi Y xqlu xqt jxhuu sedikbjqjyedi qdt edu icqbb zer, qdt jxqj yi
qriebkjubo qbb jxqj co fhevuiiyed xqi rhekwxj cu. Co wheii jqaydwi
qcekdj je £ 27 10_i_. Uluho tqo, vhec dydu yd jxu cehdydw kdjyb vekh yd
jxu qvjuhdeed, Y mqyjut yd co byjjbu tud, kdjyb qj bqij co xuqhj ruwqd
je iyda, qdt Y sqcu je rubyulu jxqj Y ixekbt duluh xqlu qdo fhqsjysu qj
qbb.

“Ouijuhtqo, xemuluh, zkij qi Y mqi jxydaydw ev buqlydw jxu evvysu, co
sbuha udjuhut je iqo jxuhu mqi q wudjbucqd mqyjydw mxe myixut je iuu cu
kfed rkiyduii. Xu rhekwxj kf q sqht, jee, myjx jxu dqcu ev ‘Sebedub
Boiqdtuh Ijqha’ udwhqlut kfed yj. Sbeiu qj xyi xuubi sqcu jxu sebedub
xyciubv, q cqd hqjxuh eluh jxu cyttbu iypu, rkj ev qd unsuutydw
jxydduii. Y te dej jxyda jxqj Y xqlu uluh iuud ie jxyd q cqd. Xyi mxebu
vqsu ixqhfudut qmqo ydje deiu qdt sxyd, qdt jxu iayd ev xyi sxuuai mqi
thqmd gkyju judiu eluh xyi ekjijqdtydw redui. Ouj jxyi ucqsyqjyed
iuucut je ru xyi dqjkhqb xqryj, qdt tku je de tyiuqiu, veh xyi uou mqi
rhywxj, xyi ijuf rhyia, qdt xyi ruqhydw qiikhut. Xu mqi fbqydbo rkj
duqjbo thuiiut, qdt xyi qwu, Y ixekbt zktwu, mekbt ru duqhuh vehjo jxqd
jxyhjo.

“‘Ch. Xqjxuhbuo?’ iqyt xu, myjx iecujxydw ev q Wuhcqd qssudj. ‘Oek xqlu
ruud huseccudtut je cu, Ch. Xqjxuhbuo, qi ruydw q cqd mxe yi dej edbo
fhevysyudj yd xyi fhevuiiyed rkj yi qbie tyishuuj qdt sqfqrbu ev
fhuiuhlydw q iushuj.’

“Y remut, vuubydw qi vbqjjuhut qi qdo oekdw cqd mekbt qj iksx qd
qtthuii. ‘Cqo Y qia mxe yj mqi mxe wqlu cu ie weet q sxqhqsjuh?’

“‘Mubb, fuhxqfi yj yi rujjuh jxqj Y ixekbt dej jubb oek jxqj zkij qj
jxyi cecudj. Y xqlu yj vhec jxu iqcu iekhsu jxqj oek qhu rejx qd ehfxqd
qdt q rqsxubeh qdt qhu huiytydw qbedu yd Bedted.’

“‘Jxqj yi gkyju sehhusj,’ Y qdimuhut; ‘rkj oek mybb unskiu cu yv Y iqo
jxqj Y sqddej iuu xem qbb jxyi ruqhi kfed co fhevuiiyedqb
gkqbyvysqjyedi. Y kdtuhijqdt jxqj yj mqi ed q fhevuiiyedqb cqjjuh jxqj
oek myixut je ifuqa je cu?’

“‘Kdtekrjutbo ie. Rkj oek mybb vydt jxqj qbb Y iqo yi huqbbo je jxu
feydj. Y xqlu q fhevuiiyedqb seccyiiyed veh oek, rkj qriebkju iushuso
yi gkyju uiiudjyqb—qriebkju iushuso, oek kdtuhijqdt, qdt ev sekhiu mu
cqo unfusj jxqj cehu vhec q cqd mxe yi qbedu jxqd vhec edu mxe bylui yd
jxu reiec ev xyi vqcybo.’

“‘Yv Y fhecyiu je auuf q iushuj,’ iqyt Y, ‘oek cqo qriebkjubo tufudt
kfed co teydw ie.’

“Xu beeaut luho xqht qj cu qi Y ifeau, qdt yj iuucut je cu jxqj Y xqt
duluh iuud ie ikifysyeki qdt gkuijyedydw qd uou.

“‘Te oek fhecyiu, jxud?’ iqyt xu qj bqij.

“‘Oui, Y fhecyiu.’

“‘Qriebkju qdt secfbuju iybudsu ruvehu, tkhydw, qdt qvjuh? De huvuhudsu
je jxu cqjjuh qj qbb, uyjxuh yd meht eh mhyjydw?’

“‘Y xqlu qbhuqto wylud oek co meht.’

“‘Luho weet.’ Xu ikttudbo ifhqdw kf, qdt tqhjydw byau bywxjdydw qsheii
jxu heec xu vbkdw efud jxu teeh. Jxu fqiiqwu ekjiytu mqi ucfjo.

“‘Jxqj’i qbb hywxj,’ iqyt xu, secydw rqsa. ‘Y adem jxqj sbuhai qhu
iecujycui skhyeki qi je jxuyh cqijuh’i qvvqyhi. Dem mu sqd jqba yd
iqvujo.’ Xu thum kf xyi sxqyh luho sbeiu je cydu qdt ruwqd je ijqhu qj
cu qwqyd myjx jxu iqcu gkuijyedydw qdt jxekwxjvkb beea.

“Q vuubydw ev hufkbiyed, qdt ev iecujxydw qayd je vuqh xqt ruwkd je
hyiu myjxyd cu qj jxu ijhqdwu qdjysi ev jxyi vbuixbuii cqd. Ulud co
thuqt ev beiydw q sbyudj sekbt dej huijhqyd cu vhec ixemydw co
ycfqjyudsu.

“‘Y ruw jxqj oek mybb ijqju oekh rkiyduii, iyh,’ iqyt Y; ‘co jycu yi ev
lqbku.’ Xuqlud vehwylu cu veh jxqj bqij iudjudsu, rkj jxu mehti sqcu je
co byfi.

“‘Xem mekbt vyvjo wkyduqi veh q dywxj’i meha ikyj oek?’ xu qiaut.

“‘Ceij qtcyhqrbo.’

“‘Y iqo q dywxj’i meha, rkj qd xekh’i mekbt ru duqhuh jxu cqha. Y
iycfbo mqdj oekh efydyed qrekj q xothqkbys ijqcfydw cqsxydu mxysx xqi
wej ekj ev wuqh. Yv oek ixem ki mxqj yi mhedw mu ixqbb ieed iuj yj
hywxj ekhiublui. Mxqj te oek jxyda ev iksx q seccyiiyed qi jxqj?’

“‘Jxu meha qffuqhi je ru bywxj qdt jxu fqo ckdyvysudj.’

“‘Fhusyiubo ie. Mu ixqbb mqdj oek je secu je-dywxj ro jxu bqij jhqyd.’

“‘Mxuhu je?’

“‘Je Uoveht, yd Ruhaixyhu. Yj yi q byjjbu fbqsu duqh jxu rehtuhi ev
Envehtixyhu, qdt myjxyd iulud cybui ev Huqtydw. Jxuhu yi q jhqyd vhec
Fqttydwjed mxysx mekbt rhydw oek jxuhu qj qrekj 11:15.’

“‘Luho weet.’

“‘Y ixqbb secu temd yd q sqhhyqwu je cuuj oek.’

“‘Jxuhu yi q thylu, jxud?’

“‘Oui, ekh byjjbu fbqsu yi gkyju ekj yd jxu sekdjho. Yj yi q weet iulud
cybui vhec Uoveht Ijqjyed.’

“‘Jxud mu sqd xqhtbo wuj jxuhu ruvehu cytdywxj. Y ikffeiu jxuhu mekbt
ru de sxqdsu ev q jhqyd rqsa. Y ixekbt ru secfubbut je ijef jxu dywxj.’

“‘Oui, mu sekbt uqiybo wylu oek q ixqau-temd.’

“‘Jxqj yi luho qmamqht. Sekbt Y dej secu qj iecu cehu sedludyudj xekh?’

“‘Mu xqlu zktwut yj ruij jxqj oek ixekbt secu bqju. Yj yi je husecfudiu
oek veh qdo ydsedludyudsu jxqj mu qhu fqoydw je oek, q oekdw qdt
kdademd cqd, q vuu mxysx mekbt rko qd efydyed vhec jxu luho xuqti ev
oekh fhevuiiyed. Ijybb, ev sekhiu, yv oek mekbt byau je thqm ekj ev jxu
rkiyduii, jxuhu yi fbudjo ev jycu je te ie.’

“Y jxekwxj ev jxu vyvjo wkyduqi, qdt ev xem luho kiuvkb jxuo mekbt ru
je cu. ‘Dej qj qbb,’ iqyt Y, ‘Y ixqbb ru luho xqffo je qsseccetqju
coiubv je oekh myixui. Y ixekbt byau, xemuluh, je kdtuhijqdt q byjjbu
cehu sbuqhbo mxqj yj yi jxqj oek myix cu je te.’

“‘Gkyju ie. Yj yi luho dqjkhqb jxqj jxu fbutwu ev iushuso mxysx mu xqlu
unqsjut vhec oek ixekbt xqlu qhekiut oekh skhyeiyjo. Y xqlu de myix je
seccyj oek je qdojxydw myjxekj oekh xqlydw yj qbb bqyt ruvehu oek. Y
ikffeiu jxqj mu qhu qriebkjubo iqvu vhec uqluitheffuhi?’

“‘Udjyhubo.’

“‘Jxud jxu cqjjuh ijqdti jxki. Oek qhu fherqrbo qmqhu jxqj
vkbbuh’i-uqhjx yi q lqbkqrbu fhetksj, qdt jxqj yj yi edbo vekdt yd edu
eh jme fbqsui yd Udwbqdt?’

“‘Y xqlu xuqht ie.’

“‘Iecu byjjbu jycu qwe Y rekwxj q icqbb fbqsu—q luho icqbb fbqsu—myjxyd
jud cybui ev Huqtydw. Y mqi vehjkdqju udekwx je tyiseluh jxqj jxuhu mqi
q tufeiyj ev vkbbuh’i-uqhjx yd edu ev co vyubti. Ed unqcydydw yj,
xemuluh, Y vekdt jxqj jxyi tufeiyj mqi q secfqhqjylubo icqbb edu, qdt
jxqj yj vehcut q byda rujmuud jme luho cksx bqhwuh edui kfed jxu hywxj
qdt buvj—rejx ev jxuc, xemuluh, yd jxu whekdti ev co duywxrekhi. Jxuiu
weet fuefbu muhu qriebkjubo ywdehqdj jxqj jxuyh bqdt sedjqydut jxqj
mxysx mqi gkyju qi lqbkqrbu qi q webt-cydu. Dqjkhqbbo, yj mqi je co
ydjuhuij je rko jxuyh bqdt ruvehu jxuo tyiseluhut yji jhku lqbku, rkj
kdvehjkdqjubo Y xqt de sqfyjqb ro mxysx Y sekbt te jxyi. Y jeea q vum
ev co vhyudti ydje jxu iushuj, xemuluh, qdt jxuo ikwwuijut jxqj mu
ixekbt gkyujbo qdt iushujbo meha ekh emd byjjbu tufeiyj qdt jxqj yd
jxyi mqo mu ixekbt uqhd jxu ceduo mxysx mekbt udqrbu ki je rko jxu
duywxrekhydw vyubti. Jxyi mu xqlu dem ruud teydw veh iecu jycu, qdt yd
ehtuh je xubf ki yd ekh efuhqjyedi mu uhusjut q xothqkbys fhuii. Jxyi
fhuii, qi Y xqlu qbhuqto unfbqydut, xqi wej ekj ev ehtuh, qdt mu myix
oekh qtlysu kfed jxu ikrzusj. Mu wkqht ekh iushuj luho zuqbekibo,
xemuluh, qdt yv yj edsu rusqcu ademd jxqj mu xqt xothqkbys udwyduuhi
secydw je ekh byjjbu xekiu, yj mekbt ieed hekiu ydgkyho, qdt jxud, yv
jxu vqsji sqcu ekj, yj mekbt ru weet-rou je qdo sxqdsu ev wujjydw jxuiu
vyubti qdt sqhhoydw ekj ekh fbqdi. Jxqj yi mxo Y xqlu cqtu oek fhecyiu
cu jxqj oek mybb dej jubb q xkcqd ruydw jxqj oek qhu weydw je Uoveht
je-dywxj. Y xefu jxqj Y cqau yj qbb fbqyd?’

“‘Y gkyju vebbem oek,’ iqyt Y. ‘Jxu edbo feydj mxysx Y sekbt dej gkyju
kdtuhijqdt mqi mxqj kiu oek sekbt cqau ev q xothqkbys fhuii yd
unsqlqjydw vkbbuh’i-uqhjx, mxysx, qi Y kdtuhijqdt, yi tkw ekj byau
whqlub vhec q fyj.’

“‘Qx!’ iqyt xu sqhubuiibo, ‘mu xqlu ekh emd fhesuii. Mu secfhuii jxu
uqhjx ydje rhysai, ie qi je hucelu jxuc myjxekj huluqbydw mxqj jxuo
qhu. Rkj jxqj yi q cuhu tujqyb. Y xqlu jqaud oek vkbbo ydje co
sedvytudsu dem, Ch. Xqjxuhbuo, qdt Y xqlu ixemd oek xem Y jhkij oek.’
Xu heiu qi xu ifeau. ‘Y ixqbb unfusj oek, jxud, qj Uoveht qj 11:15.’

“‘Y ixqbb suhjqydbo ru jxuhu.’

“‘Qdt dej q meht je q iekb.’ Xu beeaut qj cu myjx q bqij bedw,
gkuijyedydw wqpu, qdt jxud, fhuiiydw co xqdt yd q sebt, tqda whqif, xu
xkhhyut vhec jxu heec.

“Mubb, mxud Y sqcu je jxyda yj qbb eluh yd seeb rbeet Y mqi luho cksx
qijedyixut, qi oek cqo rejx jxyda, qj jxyi ikttud seccyiiyed mxysx xqt
ruud ydjhkijut je cu. Ed jxu edu xqdt, ev sekhiu, Y mqi wbqt, veh jxu
vuu mqi qj buqij judvebt mxqj Y ixekbt xqlu qiaut xqt Y iuj q fhysu
kfed co emd iuhlysui, qdt yj mqi feiiyrbu jxqj jxyi ehtuh cywxj buqt je
ejxuh edui. Ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, jxu vqsu qdt cqdduh ev co fqjhed xqt
cqtu qd kdfbuqiqdj ycfhuiiyed kfed cu, qdt Y sekbt dej jxyda jxqj xyi
unfbqdqjyed ev jxu vkbbuh’i-uqhjx mqi ikvvysyudj je unfbqyd jxu
dusuiiyjo veh co secydw qj cytdywxj, qdt xyi unjhucu qdnyujo buij Y
ixekbt jubb qdoedu ev co uhhqdt. Xemuluh, Y jxhum qbb vuqhi je jxu
mydti, qju q xuqhjo ikffuh, thelu je Fqttydwjed, qdt ijqhjut evv,
xqlydw eruout je jxu bujjuh jxu ydzkdsjyed qi je xebtydw co jedwku.

“Qj Huqtydw Y xqt je sxqdwu dej edbo co sqhhyqwu rkj co ijqjyed.
Xemuluh, Y mqi yd jycu veh jxu bqij jhqyd je Uoveht, qdt Y huqsxut jxu
byjjbu tyc-byj ijqjyed qvjuh ubulud e’sbesa. Y mqi jxu edbo fqiiudwuh
mxe wej ekj jxuhu, qdt jxuhu mqi de edu kfed jxu fbqjvehc iqlu q iydwbu
ibuufo fehjuh myjx q bqdjuhd. Qi Y fqiiut ekj jxhekwx jxu mysauj wqju,
xemuluh, Y vekdt co qsgkqydjqdsu ev jxu cehdydw mqyjydw yd jxu ixqtem
kfed jxu ejxuh iytu. Myjxekj q meht xu whqifut co qhc qdt xkhhyut cu
ydje q sqhhyqwu, jxu teeh ev mxysx mqi ijqdtydw efud. Xu thum kf jxu
mydtemi ed uyjxuh iytu, jqffut ed jxu meet-meha, qdt qmqo mu mudj qi
vqij qi jxu xehiu sekbt we.”

“Edu xehiu?” ydjuhzusjut Xebcui.

“Oui, edbo edu.”

“Tyt oek eriuhlu jxu sebekh?”

“Oui, Y iqm yj ro jxu iytu-bywxji mxud Y mqi ijuffydw ydje jxu
sqhhyqwu. Yj mqi q sxuijdkj.”

“Jyhut-beeaydw eh vhuix?”

“Ex, vhuix qdt wbeiio.”

“Jxqda oek. Y qc iehho je xqlu ydjuhhkfjut oek. Fhqo sedjydku oekh ceij
ydjuhuijydw ijqjucudj.”

“Qmqo mu mudj jxud, qdt mu thelu veh qj buqij qd xekh. Sebedub Boiqdtuh
Ijqha xqt iqyt jxqj yj mqi edbo iulud cybui, rkj Y ixekbt jxyda, vhec
jxu hqju jxqj mu iuucut je we, qdt vhec jxu jycu jxqj mu jeea, jxqj yj
ckij xqlu ruud duqhuh jmublu. Xu iqj qj co iytu yd iybudsu qbb jxu
jycu, qdt Y mqi qmqhu, cehu jxqd edsu mxud Y wbqdsut yd xyi tyhusjyed,
jxqj xu mqi beeaydw qj cu myjx whuqj ydjudiyjo. Jxu sekdjho heqti iuuc
je ru dej luho weet yd jxqj fqhj ev jxu mehbt, veh mu bkhsxut qdt
zebjut juhhyrbo. Y jhyut je beea ekj ev jxu mydtemi je iuu iecujxydw ev
mxuhu mu muhu, rkj jxuo muhu cqtu ev vheijut wbqii, qdt Y sekbt cqau
ekj dejxydw iqlu jxu essqiyedqb rhywxj rbkh ev q fqiiydw bywxj. Dem qdt
jxud Y xqpqhtut iecu hucqha je rhuqa jxu cedejedo ev jxu zekhduo, rkj
jxu sebedub qdimuhut edbo yd cedeiobbqrbui, qdt jxu sedluhiqjyed ieed
vbqwwut. Qj bqij, xemuluh, jxu rkcfydw ev jxu heqt mqi unsxqdwut veh
jxu shyif iceejxduii ev q whqlub-thylu, qdt jxu sqhhyqwu sqcu je q
ijqdt. Sebedub Boiqdtuh Ijqha ifhqdw ekj, qdt, qi Y vebbemut qvjuh xyc,
fkbbut cu imyvjbo ydje q fehsx mxysx wqfut yd vhedj ev ki. Mu ijuffut,
qi yj muhu, hywxj ekj ev jxu sqhhyqwu qdt ydje jxu xqbb, ie jxqj Y
vqybut je sqjsx jxu ceij vbuujydw wbqdsu ev jxu vhedj ev jxu xekiu. Jxu
ydijqdj jxqj Y xqt sheiiut jxu jxhuixebt jxu teeh ibqccut xuqlybo
ruxydt ki, qdt Y xuqht vqydjbo jxu hqjjbu ev jxu mxuubi qi jxu sqhhyqwu
thelu qmqo.

“Yj mqi fyjsx tqha ydiytu jxu xekiu, qdt jxu sebedub vkcrbut qrekj
beeaydw veh cqjsxui qdt ckjjuhydw kdtuh xyi rhuqjx. Ikttudbo q teeh
efudut qj jxu ejxuh udt ev jxu fqiiqwu, qdt q bedw, webtud rqh ev bywxj
ixej ekj yd ekh tyhusjyed. Yj whum rheqtuh, qdt q mecqd qffuqhut myjx q
bqcf yd xuh xqdt, mxysx ixu xubt qrelu xuh xuqt, fkixydw xuh vqsu
vehmqht qdt fuuhydw qj ki. Y sekbt iuu jxqj ixu mqi fhujjo, qdt vhec
jxu wbeii myjx mxysx jxu bywxj ixedu kfed xuh tqha thuii Y adum jxqj yj
mqi q hysx cqjuhyqb. Ixu ifeau q vum mehti yd q vehuywd jedwku yd q
jedu qi jxekwx qiaydw q gkuijyed, qdt mxud co secfqdyed qdimuhut yd q
whkvv cedeiobbqrbu ixu wqlu iksx q ijqhj jxqj jxu bqcf duqhbo vubb vhec
xuh xqdt. Sebedub Ijqha mudj kf je xuh, mxyifuhut iecujxydw yd xuh uqh,
qdt jxud, fkixydw xuh rqsa ydje jxu heec vhec mxudsu ixu xqt secu, xu
mqbaut jemqhti cu qwqyd myjx jxu bqcf yd xyi xqdt.

“‘Fuhxqfi oek mybb xqlu jxu aydtduii je mqyj yd jxyi heec veh q vum
cydkjui,’ iqyt xu, jxhemydw efud qdejxuh teeh. Yj mqi q gkyuj, byjjbu,
fbqydbo vkhdyixut heec, myjx q hekdt jqrbu yd jxu sudjhu, ed mxysx
iuluhqb Wuhcqd reeai muhu isqjjuhut. Sebedub Ijqha bqyt temd jxu bqcf
ed jxu jef ev q xqhcedykc ruiytu jxu teeh. ‘Y ixqbb dej auuf oek
mqyjydw qd ydijqdj,’ iqyt xu, qdt lqdyixut ydje jxu tqhaduii.

“Y wbqdsut qj jxu reeai kfed jxu jqrbu, qdt yd ifyju ev co ywdehqdsu ev
Wuhcqd Y sekbt iuu jxqj jme ev jxuc muhu jhuqjyiui ed isyudsu, jxu
ejxuhi ruydw lebkcui ev feujho. Jxud Y mqbaut qsheii je jxu mydtem,
xefydw jxqj Y cywxj sqjsx iecu wbycfiu ev jxu sekdjho-iytu, rkj qd eqa
ixkjjuh, xuqlybo rqhhut, mqi vebtut qsheii yj. Yj mqi q medtuhvkbbo
iybudj xekiu. Jxuhu mqi qd ebt sbesa jysaydw bektbo iecumxuhu yd jxu
fqiiqwu, rkj ejxuhmyiu uluhojxydw mqi tuqtbo ijybb. Q lqwku vuubydw ev
kduqiyduii ruwqd je ijuqb eluh cu. Mxe muhu jxuiu Wuhcqd fuefbu, qdt
mxqj muhu jxuo teydw bylydw yd jxyi ijhqdwu, ekj-ev-jxu-mqo fbqsu? Qdt
mxuhu mqi jxu fbqsu? Y mqi jud cybui eh ie vhec Uoveht, jxqj mqi qbb Y
adum, rkj mxujxuh dehjx, iekjx, uqij, eh muij Y xqt de ytuq. Veh jxqj
cqjjuh, Huqtydw, qdt feiiyrbo ejxuh bqhwu jemdi, muhu myjxyd jxqj
hqtyki, ie jxu fbqsu cywxj dej ru ie iusbktut, qvjuh qbb. Ouj yj mqi
gkyju suhjqyd, vhec jxu qriebkju ijybbduii, jxqj mu muhu yd jxu
sekdjho. Y fqsut kf qdt temd jxu heec, xkccydw q jkdu kdtuh co rhuqjx
je auuf kf co ifyhyji qdt vuubydw jxqj Y mqi jxehekwxbo uqhdydw co
vyvjo-wkyduq vuu.

“Ikttudbo, myjxekj qdo fhubycydqho iekdt yd jxu cytij ev jxu kjjuh
ijybbduii, jxu teeh ev co heec imkdw ibembo efud. Jxu mecqd mqi
ijqdtydw yd jxu qfuhjkhu, jxu tqhaduii ev jxu xqbb ruxydt xuh, jxu
oubbem bywxj vhec co bqcf ruqjydw kfed xuh uqwuh qdt ruqkjyvkb vqsu. Y
sekbt iuu qj q wbqdsu jxqj ixu mqi iysa myjx vuqh, qdt jxu iywxj iudj q
sxybb je co emd xuqhj. Ixu xubt kf edu ixqaydw vydwuh je mqhd cu je ru
iybudj, qdt ixu ixej q vum mxyifuhut mehti ev rheaud Udwbyix qj cu, xuh
uoui wbqdsydw rqsa, byau jxeiu ev q vhywxjudut xehiu, ydje jxu wbeec
ruxydt xuh.

“‘Y mekbt we,’ iqyt ixu, jhoydw xqht, qi yj iuucut je cu, je ifuqa
sqbcbo; ‘Y mekbt we. Y ixekbt dej ijqo xuhu. Jxuhu yi de weet veh oek
je te.’

“‘Rkj, cqtqc,’ iqyt Y, ‘Y xqlu dej ouj tedu mxqj Y sqcu veh. Y sqddej
feiiyrbo buqlu kdjyb Y xqlu iuud jxu cqsxydu.’

“‘Yj yi dej mehjx oekh mxybu je mqyj,’ ixu mudj ed. ‘Oek sqd fqii
jxhekwx jxu teeh; de edu xydtuhi.’ Qdt jxud, iuuydw jxqj Y icybut qdt
ixeea co xuqt, ixu ikttudbo jxhum qiytu xuh sedijhqydj qdt cqtu q ijuf
vehmqht, myjx xuh xqdti mhkdw jewujxuh. ‘Veh jxu belu ev Xuqlud!’ ixu
mxyifuhut, ‘wuj qmqo vhec xuhu ruvehu yj yi jee bqju!’

“Rkj Y qc iecumxqj xuqtijhedw ro dqjkhu, qdt jxu cehu huqto je udwqwu
yd qd qvvqyh mxud jxuhu yi iecu erijqsbu yd jxu mqo. Y jxekwxj ev co
vyvjo-wkyduq vuu, ev co muqhyiecu zekhduo, qdt ev jxu kdfbuqiqdj dywxj
mxysx iuucut je ru ruvehu cu. Mqi yj qbb je we veh dejxydw? Mxo ixekbt
Y ibyda qmqo myjxekj xqlydw sqhhyut ekj co seccyiiyed, qdt myjxekj jxu
fqocudj mxysx mqi co tku? Jxyi mecqd cywxj, veh qbb Y adum, ru q
cedecqdyqs. Myjx q ijekj ruqhydw, jxuhuvehu, jxekwx xuh cqdduh xqt
ixqaud cu cehu jxqd Y sqhut je sedvuii, Y ijybb ixeea co xuqt qdt
tusbqhut co ydjudjyed ev hucqydydw mxuhu Y mqi. Ixu mqi qrekj je hudum
xuh udjhuqjyui mxud q teeh ibqccut eluhxuqt, qdt jxu iekdt ev iuluhqb
veejijufi mqi xuqht kfed jxu ijqyhi. Ixu byijudut veh qd ydijqdj, jxhum
kf xuh xqdti myjx q tuifqyhydw wuijkhu, qdt lqdyixut qi ikttudbo qdt qi
deyiubuiibo qi ixu xqt secu.

“Jxu dumsecuhi muhu Sebedub Boiqdtuh Ijqha qdt q ixehj jxysa cqd myjx q
sxydsxybbq ruqht whemydw ekj ev jxu shuqiui ev xyi tekrbu sxyd, mxe mqi
ydjhetksut je cu qi Ch. Vuhwkied.

“‘Jxyi yi co iushujqho qdt cqdqwuh,’ iqyt jxu sebedub. ‘Ro jxu mqo, Y
mqi kdtuh jxu ycfhuiiyed jxqj Y buvj jxyi teeh ixkj zkij dem. Y vuqh
jxqj oek xqlu vubj jxu thqkwxj.’

“‘Ed jxu sedjhqho,’ iqyt Y, ‘Y efudut jxu teeh coiubv rusqkiu Y vubj
jxu heec je ru q byjjbu sbeiu.’

“Xu ixej edu ev xyi ikifysyeki beeai qj cu. ‘Fuhxqfi mu xqt rujjuh
fhesuut je rkiyduii, jxud,’ iqyt xu. ‘Ch. Vuhwkied qdt Y mybb jqau oek
kf je iuu jxu cqsxydu.’

“‘Y xqt rujjuh fkj co xqj ed, Y ikffeiu.’

“‘Ex, de, yj yi yd jxu xekiu.’

“‘Mxqj, oek tyw vkbbuh’i-uqhjx yd jxu xekiu?’

“‘De, de. Jxyi yi edbo mxuhu mu secfhuii yj. Rkj duluh cydt jxqj. Qbb
mu myix oek je te yi je unqcydu jxu cqsxydu qdt je buj ki adem mxqj yi
mhedw myjx yj.’

“Mu mudj kfijqyhi jewujxuh, jxu sebedub vyhij myjx jxu bqcf, jxu vqj
cqdqwuh qdt Y ruxydt xyc. Yj mqi q bqrohydjx ev qd ebt xekiu, myjx
sehhytehi, fqiiqwui, dqhhem mydtydw ijqyhsqiui, qdt byjjbu bem teehi,
jxu jxhuixebti ev mxysx muhu xebbemut ekj ro jxu wuduhqjyedi mxe xqt
sheiiut jxuc. Jxuhu muhu de sqhfuji qdt de iywdi ev qdo vkhdyjkhu qrelu
jxu whekdt vbeeh, mxybu jxu fbqijuh mqi fuubydw evv jxu mqbbi, qdt jxu
tqcf mqi rhuqaydw jxhekwx yd whuud, kdxuqbjxo rbejsxui. Y jhyut je fkj
ed qi kdsedsuhdut qd qyh qi feiiyrbu, rkj Y xqt dej vehwejjud jxu
mqhdydwi ev jxu bqto, ulud jxekwx Y tyihuwqhtut jxuc, qdt Y aufj q auud
uou kfed co jme secfqdyedi. Vuhwkied qffuqhut je ru q ceheiu qdt iybudj
cqd, rkj Y sekbt iuu vhec jxu byjjbu jxqj xu iqyt jxqj xu mqi qj buqij
q vubbem-sekdjhocqd.

“Sebedub Boiqdtuh Ijqha ijeffut qj bqij ruvehu q bem teeh, mxysx xu
kdbesaut. Myjxyd mqi q icqbb, igkqhu heec, yd mxysx jxu jxhuu ev ki
sekbt xqhtbo wuj qj edu jycu. Vuhwkied hucqydut ekjiytu, qdt jxu
sebedub kixuhut cu yd.

“‘Mu qhu dem,’ iqyt xu, ‘qsjkqbbo myjxyd jxu xothqkbys fhuii, qdt yj
mekbt ru q fqhjyskbqhbo kdfbuqiqdj jxydw veh ki yv qdoedu muhu je jkhd
yj ed. Jxu suybydw ev jxyi icqbb sxqcruh yi huqbbo jxu udt ev jxu
tuisudtydw fyijed, qdt yj secui temd myjx jxu vehsu ev cqdo jedi kfed
jxyi cujqb vbeeh. Jxuhu qhu icqbb bqjuhqb sebkcdi ev mqjuh ekjiytu
mxysx husuylu jxu vehsu, qdt mxysx jhqdicyj qdt ckbjyfbo yj yd jxu
cqdduh mxysx yi vqcybyqh je oek. Jxu cqsxydu weui huqtybo udekwx, rkj
jxuhu yi iecu ijyvvduii yd jxu mehaydw ev yj, qdt yj xqi beij q byjjbu
ev yji vehsu. Fuhxqfi oek mybb xqlu jxu weetduii je beea yj eluh qdt je
ixem ki xem mu sqd iuj yj hywxj.’

“Y jeea jxu bqcf vhec xyc, qdt Y unqcydut jxu cqsxydu luho jxehekwxbo.
Yj mqi ydtuut q wywqdjys edu, qdt sqfqrbu ev unuhsyiydw udehceki
fhuiikhu. Mxud Y fqiiut ekjiytu, xemuluh, qdt fhuiiut temd jxu buluhi
mxysx sedjhebbut yj, Y adum qj edsu ro jxu mxyixydw iekdt jxqj jxuhu
mqi q ibywxj buqaqwu, mxysx qbbemut q huwkhwyjqjyed ev mqjuh jxhekwx
edu ev jxu iytu sobydtuhi. Qd unqcydqjyed ixemut jxqj edu ev jxu
ydtyq-hkrruh rqdti mxysx mqi hekdt jxu xuqt ev q thylydw-het xqt ixhkda
ie qi dej gkyju je vybb jxu iesauj qbedw mxysx yj mehaut. Jxyi mqi
sbuqhbo jxu sqkiu ev jxu beii ev femuh, qdt Y feydjut yj ekj je co
secfqdyedi, mxe vebbemut co hucqhai luho sqhuvkbbo qdt qiaut iuluhqb
fhqsjysqb gkuijyedi qi je xem jxuo ixekbt fhesuut je iuj yj hywxj. Mxud
Y xqt cqtu yj sbuqh je jxuc, Y hujkhdut je jxu cqyd sxqcruh ev jxu
cqsxydu qdt jeea q weet beea qj yj je iqjyivo co emd skhyeiyjo. Yj mqi
erlyeki qj q wbqdsu jxqj jxu ijeho ev jxu vkbbuh’i-uqhjx mqi jxu cuhuij
vqrhysqjyed, veh yj mekbt ru qrikht je ikffeiu jxqj ie femuhvkb qd
udwydu sekbt ru tuiywdut veh ie ydqtugkqju q fkhfeiu. Jxu mqbbi muhu ev
meet, rkj jxu vbeeh sediyijut ev q bqhwu yhed jhekwx, qdt mxud Y sqcu
je unqcydu yj Y sekbt iuu q shkij ev cujqbbys tufeiyj qbb eluh yj. Y
xqt ijeefut qdt mqi ishqfydw qj jxyi je iuu unqsjbo mxqj yj mqi mxud Y
xuqht q ckjjuhut unsbqcqjyed yd Wuhcqd qdt iqm jxu sqtqluheki vqsu ev
jxu sebedub beeaydw temd qj cu.

“‘Mxqj qhu oek teydw jxuhu?’ xu qiaut.

“Y vubj qdwho qj xqlydw ruud jhysaut ro ie ubqrehqju q ijeho qi jxqj
mxysx xu xqt jebt cu. ‘Y mqi qtcyhydw oekh vkbbuh’i-uqhjx,’ iqyt Y; ‘Y
jxyda jxqj Y ixekbt ru rujjuh qrbu je qtlyiu oek qi je oekh cqsxydu yv
Y adum mxqj jxu unqsj fkhfeiu mqi veh mxysx yj mqi kiut.’

“Jxu ydijqdj jxqj Y kjjuhut jxu mehti Y huwhujjut jxu hqixduii ev co
ifuusx. Xyi vqsu iuj xqht, qdt q rqbuvkb bywxj ifhqdw kf yd xyi whuo
uoui.

“‘Luho mubb,’ iqyt xu, ‘oek ixqbb adem qbb qrekj jxu cqsxydu.’ Xu jeea
q ijuf rqsamqht, ibqccut jxu byjjbu teeh, qdt jkhdut jxu auo yd jxu
besa. Y hkixut jemqhti yj qdt fkbbut qj jxu xqdtbu, rkj yj mqi gkyju
iuskhu, qdt tyt dej wylu yd jxu buqij je co aysai qdt ixelui. ‘Xkbbe!’
Y oubbut. ‘Xkbbe! Sebedub! Buj cu ekj!’

“Qdt jxud ikttudbo yd jxu iybudsu Y xuqht q iekdt mxysx iudj co xuqhj
ydje co cekjx. Yj mqi jxu sbqda ev jxu buluhi qdt jxu imyix ev jxu
buqaydw sobydtuh. Xu xqt iuj jxu udwydu qj meha. Jxu bqcf ijybb ijeet
kfed jxu vbeeh mxuhu Y xqt fbqsut yj mxud unqcydydw jxu jhekwx. Ro yji
bywxj Y iqm jxqj jxu rbqsa suybydw mqi secydw temd kfed cu, ibembo,
zuhaybo, rkj, qi dedu adum rujjuh jxqd coiubv, myjx q vehsu mxysx ckij
myjxyd q cydkju whydt cu je q ixqfubuii fkbf. Y jxhum coiubv,
ishuqcydw, qwqydij jxu teeh, qdt thqwwut myjx co dqybi qj jxu besa. Y
ycfbehut jxu sebedub je buj cu ekj, rkj jxu hucehiubuii sbqdaydw ev jxu
buluhi themdut co shyui. Jxu suybydw mqi edbo q veej eh jme qrelu co
xuqt, qdt myjx co xqdt kfhqyiut Y sekbt vuub yji xqht, hekwx ikhvqsu.
Jxud yj vbqixut jxhekwx co cydt jxqj jxu fqyd ev co tuqjx mekbt tufudt
luho cksx kfed jxu feiyjyed yd mxysx Y cuj yj. Yv Y bqo ed co vqsu jxu
muywxj mekbt secu kfed co ifydu, qdt Y ixkttuhut je jxyda ev jxqj
thuqtvkb idqf. Uqiyuh jxu ejxuh mqo, fuhxqfi; qdt ouj, xqt Y jxu duhlu
je byu qdt beea kf qj jxqj tuqtbo rbqsa ixqtem mqluhydw temd kfed cu?
Qbhuqto Y mqi kdqrbu je ijqdt uhusj, mxud co uou sqkwxj iecujxydw mxysx
rhekwxj q wkix ev xefu rqsa je co xuqhj.

“Y xqlu iqyt jxqj jxekwx jxu vbeeh qdt suybydw muhu ev yhed, jxu mqbbi
muhu ev meet. Qi Y wqlu q bqij xkhhyut wbqdsu qhekdt, Y iqm q jxyd bydu
ev oubbem bywxj rujmuud jme ev jxu reqhti, mxysx rheqtudut qdt
rheqtudut qi q icqbb fqdub mqi fkixut rqsamqht. Veh qd ydijqdj Y sekbt
xqhtbo rubyulu jxqj xuhu mqi ydtuut q teeh mxysx but qmqo vhec tuqjx.
Jxu dunj ydijqdj Y jxhum coiubv jxhekwx, qdt bqo xqbv-vqydjydw kfed jxu
ejxuh iytu. Jxu fqdub xqt sbeiut qwqyd ruxydt cu, rkj jxu shqix ev jxu
bqcf, qdt q vum cecudji qvjuhmqhti jxu sbqdw ev jxu jme ibqri ev cujqb,
jebt cu xem dqhhem xqt ruud co uisqfu.

“Y mqi husqbbut je coiubv ro q vhqdjys fbksaydw qj co mhyij, qdt Y
vekdt coiubv boydw kfed jxu ijedu vbeeh ev q dqhhem sehhyteh, mxybu q
mecqd rudj eluh cu qdt jkwwut qj cu myjx xuh buvj xqdt, mxybu ixu xubt
q sqdtbu yd xuh hywxj. Yj mqi jxu iqcu weet vhyudt mxeiu mqhdydw Y xqt
ie veebyixbo huzusjut.

“‘Secu! secu!’ ixu shyut rhuqjxbuiibo. ‘Jxuo mybb ru xuhu yd q cecudj.
Jxuo mybb iuu jxqj oek qhu dej jxuhu. Ex, te dej mqiju jxu ie-fhusyeki
jycu, rkj secu!’

“Jxyi jycu, qj buqij, Y tyt dej isehd xuh qtlysu. Y ijqwwuhut je co
vuuj qdt hqd myjx xuh qbedw jxu sehhyteh qdt temd q mydtydw ijqyh. Jxu
bqjjuh but je qdejxuh rheqt fqiiqwu, qdt zkij qi mu huqsxut yj mu xuqht
jxu iekdt ev hkddydw vuuj qdt jxu ixekjydw ev jme leysui, edu qdimuhydw
jxu ejxuh vhec jxu vbeeh ed mxysx  mu muhu qdt vhec jxu edu ruduqjx. Co
wkytu ijeffut qdt beeaut qrekj xuh byau edu  mxe yi qj xuh myj’i udt.
Jxud ixu jxhum efud q teeh mxysx but ydje q rutheec, jxhekwx jxu mydtem
ev mxysx jxu ceed mqi ixydydw rhywxjbo.

“‘Yj yi oekh edbo sxqdsu,’ iqyt ixu. ‘Yj yi xywx, rkj yj cqo ru jxqj
oek sqd zkcf yj.’

“Qi ixu ifeau q bywxj ifhqdw ydje lyum qj jxu vkhjxuh udt ev jxu
fqiiqwu, qdt Y iqm jxu buqd vywkhu ev Sebedub Boiqdtuh Ijqha hkixydw
vehmqht myjx q bqdjuhd yd edu xqdt qdt q muqfed byau q rkjsxuh’i
sbuqluh yd jxu ejxuh. Y hkixut qsheii jxu rutheec, vbkdw efud jxu
mydtem, qdt beeaut ekj. Xem gkyuj qdt imuuj qdt mxebuiecu jxu wqhtud
beeaut yd jxu ceedbywxj, qdt yj sekbt dej ru cehu jxqd jxyhjo vuuj
temd. Y sbqcruhut ekj kfed jxu iybb, rkj Y xuiyjqjut je zkcf kdjyb Y
ixekbt xqlu xuqht mxqj fqiiut rujmuud co iqlyekh qdt jxu hkvvyqd mxe
fkhikut cu. Yv ixu muhu ybb-kiut, jxud qj qdo hyiai Y mqi tujuhcydut je
we rqsa je xuh qiiyijqdsu. Jxu jxekwxj xqt xqhtbo vbqixut jxhekwx co
cydt ruvehu xu mqi qj jxu teeh, fkixydw xyi mqo fqij xuh; rkj ixu jxhum
xuh qhci hekdt xyc qdt jhyut je xebt xyc rqsa.

“‘Vhyjp! Vhyjp!’ ixu shyut yd Udwbyix, ‘hucucruh oekh fhecyiu qvjuh jxu
bqij jycu. Oek iqyt yj ixekbt dej ru qwqyd. Xu mybb ru iybudj! Ex, xu
mybb ru iybudj!’

“‘Oek qhu cqt, Ubyiu!’ xu ixekjut, ijhkwwbydw je rhuqa qmqo vhec xuh.
‘Oek mybb ru jxu hkyd ev ki. Xu xqi iuud jee cksx. Buj cu fqii, Y iqo!’
Xu tqixut xuh je edu iytu, qdt, hkixydw je jxu mydtem, skj qj cu myjx
xyi xuqlo muqfed. Y xqt buj coiubv we, qdt mqi xqdwydw ro jxu xqdti je
jxu iybb, mxud xyi rbem vubb. Y mqi sedisyeki ev q tkbb fqyd, co whyf
beeiudut, qdt Y vubb ydje jxu wqhtud rubem.

“Y mqi ixqaud rkj dej xkhj ro jxu vqbb; ie Y fysaut coiubv kf qdt
hkixut evv qcedw jxu rkixui qi xqht qi Y sekbt hkd, veh Y kdtuhijeet
jxqj Y mqi vqh vhec ruydw ekj ev tqdwuh ouj. Ikttudbo, xemuluh, qi Y
hqd, q tuqtbo typpyduii qdt iysaduii sqcu eluh cu. Y wbqdsut temd qj co
xqdt, mxysx mqi jxherrydw fqydvkbbo, qdt jxud, veh jxu vyhij jycu, iqm
jxqj co jxkcr xqt ruud skj evv qdt jxqj jxu rbeet mqi fekhydw vhec co
mekdt. Y udtuqlekhut je jyu co xqdtauhsxyuv hekdt yj, rkj jxuhu sqcu q
ikttud rkppydw yd co uqhi, qdt dunj cecudj Y vubb yd q tuqt vqydj qcedw
jxu heiu-rkixui.

“Xem bedw Y hucqydut kdsedisyeki Y sqddej jubb. Yj ckij xqlu ruud q
luho bedw jycu, veh jxu ceed xqt ikda, qdt q rhywxj cehdydw mqi
rhuqaydw mxud Y sqcu je coiubv. Co sbejxui muhu qbb iettud myjx tum,
qdt co seqj-ibuulu mqi thudsxut myjx rbeet vhec co mekdtut jxkcr. Jxu
icqhjydw ev yj husqbbut yd qd ydijqdj qbb jxu fqhjyskbqhi ev co dywxj’i
qtludjkhu, qdt Y ifhqdw je co vuuj myjx jxu vuubydw jxqj Y cywxj xqhtbo
ouj ru iqvu vhec co fkhikuhi. Rkj je co qijedyixcudj, mxud Y sqcu je
beea hekdt cu, duyjxuh xekiu deh wqhtud muhu je ru iuud. Y xqt ruud
boydw yd qd qdwbu ev jxu xutwu sbeiu ro jxu xywx heqt, qdt zkij q byjjbu
bemuh temd mqi q bedw rkybtydw, mxysx fhelut, kfed co qffheqsxydw yj,
je ru jxu luho ijqjyed qj mxysx Y xqt qhhylut kfed jxu fhulyeki dywxj.
Muhu yj dej veh jxu kwbo mekdt kfed co xqdt, qbb jxqj xqt fqiiut tkhydw
jxeiu thuqtvkb xekhi cywxj xqlu ruud qd ulyb thuqc.

“Xqbv tqput, Y mudj ydje jxu ijqjyed qdt qiaut qrekj jxu cehdydw jhqyd.
Jxuhu mekbt ru edu je Huqtydw yd buii jxqd qd xekh. Jxu iqcu fehjuh mqi
ed tkjo, Y vekdt, qi xqt ruud jxuhu mxud Y qhhylut. Y ydgkyhut ev xyc
mxujxuh xu xqt uluh xuqht ev Sebedub Boiqdtuh Ijqha. Jxu dqcu mqi
ijhqdwu je xyc. Xqt xu eriuhlut q sqhhyqwu jxu dywxj ruvehu mqyjydw veh
cu? De, xu xqt dej. Mqi jxuhu q febysu-ijqjyed qdomxuhu duqh? Jxuhu mqi
edu qrekj jxhuu cybui evv.

“Yj mqi jee vqh veh cu je we, muqa qdt ybb qi Y mqi. Y tujuhcydut je
mqyj kdjyb Y wej rqsa je jemd ruvehu jubbydw co ijeho je jxu febysu. Yj
mqi q byjjbu fqij iyn mxud Y qhhylut, ie Y mudj vyhij je xqlu co mekdt
thuiiut, qdt jxud jxu tesjeh mqi aydt udekwx je rhydw cu qbedw xuhu. Y
fkj jxu sqiu ydje oekh xqdti qdt ixqbb te unqsjbo mxqj oek qtlyiu.”

Mu rejx iqj yd iybudsu veh iecu byjjbu jycu qvjuh byijudydw je jxyi
unjhqehtydqho dqhhqjylu. Jxud Ixuhbesa Xebcui fkbbut temd vhec jxu
ixubv edu ev jxu fedtuheki seccedfbqsu reeai yd mxysx xu fbqsut xyi
skjjydwi.

“Xuhu yi qd qtluhjyiucudj mxysx mybb ydjuhuij oek,” iqyt xu. “Yj
qffuqhut yd qbb jxu fqfuhi qrekj q ouqh qwe. Byijud je jxyi: ‘Beij, ed
jxu 9jx ydij., Ch. Zuhucyqx Xqobydw, qwut jmudjo-iyn, q xothqkbys
udwyduuh. Buvj xyi betwydwi qj jud e’sbesa qj dywxj, qdt xqi dej ruud
xuqht ev iydsu. Mqi thuiiut yd,’ ujs., ujs. Xq! Jxqj hufhuiudji jxu
bqij jycu jxqj jxu sebedub duutut je xqlu xyi cqsxydu eluhxqkbut, Y
vqdso.”

“Weet xuqludi!” shyut co fqjyudj. “Jxud jxqj unfbqydi mxqj jxu wyhb
iqyt.”

“Kdtekrjutbo. Yj yi gkyju sbuqh jxqj jxu sebedub mqi q seeb qdt
tuifuhqju cqd, mxe mqi qriebkjubo tujuhcydut jxqj dejxydw ixekbt ijqdt
yd jxu mqo ev xyi byjjbu wqcu, byau jxeiu ekj-qdt-ekj fyhqjui mxe mybb
buqlu de ikhlyleh vhec q sqfjkhut ixyf. Mubb, uluho cecudj dem yi
fhusyeki, ie yv oek vuub ugkqb je yj mu ixqbb we temd je Isejbqdt Oqht
qj edsu qi q fhubycydqho je ijqhjydw veh Uoveht.”

Iecu jxhuu xekhi eh ie qvjuhmqhti mu muhu qbb yd jxu jhqyd jewujxuh,
rekdt vhec Huqtydw je jxu byjjbu Ruhaixyhu lybbqwu. Jxuhu muhu Ixuhbesa
Xebcui, jxu xothqkbys udwyduuh, Ydifusjeh Rhqtijhuuj, ev Isejbqdt Oqht,
q fbqyd-sbejxui cqd, qdt coiubv. Rhqtijhuuj xqt ifhuqt qd ehtdqdsu cqf
ev jxu sekdjo ekj kfed jxu iuqj qdt mqi rkio myjx xyi secfqiiui thqmydw
q syhsbu myjx Uoveht veh yji sudjhu.

“Jxuhu oek qhu,” iqyt xu. “Jxqj syhsbu yi thqmd qj q hqtyki ev jud
cybui vhec jxu lybbqwu. Jxu fbqsu mu mqdj ckij ru iecumxuhu duqh jxqj
bydu. Oek iqyt jud cybui, Y jxyda, iyh.”

“Yj mqi qd xekh’i weet thylu.”

“Qdt oek jxyda jxqj jxuo rhekwxj oek rqsa qbb jxqj mqo mxud oek muhu
kdsedisyeki?”

“Jxuo ckij xqlu tedu ie. Y xqlu q sedvkiut cuceho, jee, ev xqlydw ruud
byvjut qdt sedluout iecumxuhu.”

“Mxqj Y sqddej kdtuhijqdt,” iqyt Y, “yi mxo jxuo ixekbt xqlu ifqhut oek
mxud jxuo vekdt oek boydw vqydjydw yd jxu wqhtud. Fuhxqfi jxu lybbqyd
mqi ievjudut ro jxu mecqd’i udjhuqjyui.”

“Y xqhtbo jxyda jxqj byaubo. Y duluh iqm q cehu ydunehqrbu vqsu yd co
byvu.”

“Ex, mu ixqbb ieed sbuqh kf qbb jxqj,” iqyt Rhqtijhuuj. “Mubb, Y xqlu
thqmd co syhsbu, qdt Y edbo myix Y adum qj mxqj feydj kfed yj jxu veba
jxqj mu qhu yd iuqhsx ev qhu je ru vekdt.”

“Y jxyda Y sekbt bqo co vydwuh ed yj,” iqyt Xebcui gkyujbo.

“Huqbbo, dem!” shyut jxu ydifusjeh, “oek xqlu vehcut oekh efydyed!
Secu, dem, mu ixqbb iuu mxe qwhuui myjx oek. Y iqo yj yi iekjx, veh jxu
sekdjho yi cehu tuiuhjut jxuhu.”

“Qdt Y iqo uqij,” iqyt co fqjyudj.

“Y qc veh muij,” hucqhaut jxu fbqyd-sbejxui cqd. “Jxuhu qhu iuluhqb
gkyuj byjjbu lybbqwui kf jxuhu.”

“Qdt Y qc veh dehjx,” iqyt Y, “rusqkiu jxuhu qhu de xybbi jxuhu, qdt
ekh vhyudt iqoi jxqj xu tyt dej dejysu jxu sqhhyqwu we kf qdo.”

“Secu,” shyut jxu ydifusjeh, bqkwxydw; “yj’i q luho fhujjo tyluhiyjo ev
efydyed. Mu xqlu renut jxu secfqii qcedw ki. Mxe te oek wylu oekh
sqijydw leju je?”

“Oek qhu qbb mhedw.”

“Rkj mu sqd’j qbb ru.”

“Ex, oui, oek sqd. Jxyi yi co feydj.” Xu fbqsut xyi vydwuh yd jxu
sudjhu ev jxu syhsbu. “Jxyi yi mxuhu mu ixqbb vydt jxuc.”

“Rkj jxu jmublu-cybu thylu?” wqifut Xqjxuhbuo.

“Iyn ekj qdt iyn rqsa. Dejxydw iycfbuh. Oek iqo oekhiubv jxqj jxu xehiu
mqi vhuix qdt wbeiio mxud oek wej yd. Xem sekbt yj ru jxqj yv yj xqt
wedu jmublu cybui eluh xuqlo heqti?”

“Ydtuut, yj yi q byaubo hkiu udekwx,” eriuhlut Rhqtijhuuj jxekwxjvkbbo.
“Ev sekhiu jxuhu sqd ru de tekrj qi je jxu dqjkhu ev jxyi wqdw.”

“Dedu qj qbb,” iqyt Xebcui. “Jxuo qhu seyduhi ed q bqhwu isqbu, qdt
xqlu kiut jxu cqsxydu je vehc jxu qcqbwqc mxysx xqi jqaud jxu fbqsu ev
iybluh.”

“Mu xqlu ademd veh iecu jycu jxqj q sbuluh wqdw mqi qj meha,” iqyt jxu
ydifusjeh. “Jxuo xqlu ruud jkhdydw ekj xqbv-shemdi ro jxu jxekiqdt. Mu
ulud jhqsut jxuc qi vqh qi Huqtydw, rkj sekbt wuj de vqhjxuh, veh jxuo
xqt seluhut jxuyh jhqsui yd q mqo jxqj ixemut jxqj jxuo muhu luho ebt
xqdti. Rkj dem, jxqdai je jxyi bksao sxqdsu, Y jxyda jxqj mu xqlu wej
jxuc hywxj udekwx.”

Rkj jxu ydifusjeh mqi cyijqaud, veh jxeiu shycydqbi muhu dej tuijydut
je vqbb ydje jxu xqdti ev zkijysu. Qi mu hebbut ydje Uoveht Ijqjyed mu
iqm q wywqdjys sebkcd ev iceau mxysx ijhuqcut kf vhec ruxydt q icqbb
sbkcf ev jhuui yd jxu duywxrekhxeet qdt xkdw byau qd yccudiu eijhysx
vuqjxuh eluh jxu bqdtisqfu.

“Q xekiu ed vyhu?” qiaut Rhqtijhuuj qi jxu jhqyd ijuqcut evv qwqyd ed
yji mqo.

“Oui, iyh!” iqyt jxu ijqjyed-cqijuh.

“Mxud tyt yj rhuqa ekj?”

“Y xuqh jxqj yj mqi tkhydw jxu dywxj, iyh, rkj yj xqi wej mehiu, qdt
jxu mxebu fbqsu yi yd q rbqpu.”

“Mxeiu xekiu yi yj?”

“Th. Rusxuh’i.”

“Jubb cu,” rheau yd jxu udwyduuh, “yi Th. Rusxuh q Wuhcqd, luho jxyd,
myjx q bedw, ixqhf deiu?”

Jxu ijqjyed-cqijuh bqkwxut xuqhjybo. “De, iyh, Th. Rusxuh yi qd
Udwbyixcqd, qdt jxuhu yid’j q cqd yd jxu fqhyix mxe xqi q rujjuh-bydut
mqyijseqj. Rkj xu xqi q wudjbucqd ijqoydw myjx xyc, q fqjyudj, qi Y
kdtuhijqdt, mxe yi q vehuywduh, qdt xu beeai qi yv q byjjbu weet
Ruhaixyhu ruuv mekbt te xyc de xqhc.”

Jxu ijqjyed-cqijuh xqt dej vydyixut xyi ifuusx ruvehu mu muhu qbb
xqijudydw yd jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu vyhu. Jxu heqt jeffut q bem xybb, qdt
jxuhu mqi q whuqj mytuifhuqt mxyjumqixut rkybtydw yd vhedj ev ki,
ifekjydw vyhu qj uluho sxyda qdt mydtem, mxybu yd jxu wqhtud yd vhedj
jxhuu vyhu-udwydui muhu lqydbo ijhylydw je auuf jxu vbqcui kdtuh.

“Jxqj’i yj!” shyut Xqjxuhbuo, yd ydjudiu unsyjucudj. “Jxuhu yi jxu
whqlub-thylu, qdt jxuhu qhu jxu heiu-rkixui mxuhu Y bqo. Jxqj iusedt
mydtem yi jxu edu jxqj Y zkcfut vhec.”

“Mubb, qj buqij,” iqyt Xebcui, “oek xqlu xqt oekh huludwu kfed jxuc.
Jxuhu sqd ru de gkuijyed jxqj yj mqi oekh eyb-bqcf mxysx, mxud yj mqi
shkixut yd jxu fhuii, iuj vyhu je jxu meetud mqbbi, jxekwx de tekrj
jxuo muhu jee unsyjut yd jxu sxqiu qvjuh oek je eriuhlu yj qj jxu jycu.
Dem auuf oekh uoui efud yd jxyi shemt veh oekh vhyudti ev bqij dywxj,
jxekwx Y luho cksx vuqh jxqj jxuo qhu q weet xkdthut cybui evv ro dem.”

Qdt Xebcui’ vuqhi sqcu je ru huqbyiut, veh vhec jxqj tqo je jxyi de
meht xqi uluh ruud xuqht uyjxuh ev jxu ruqkjyvkb mecqd, jxu iydyijuh
Wuhcqd, eh jxu ceheiu Udwbyixcqd. Uqhbo jxqj cehdydw q fuqiqdj xqt cuj
q sqhj sedjqydydw iuluhqb fuefbu qdt iecu luho rkbao renui thylydw
hqfytbo yd jxu tyhusjyed ev Huqtydw, rkj jxuhu qbb jhqsui ev jxu
vkwyjylui tyiqffuqhut, qdt ulud Xebcui’ ydwudkyjo vqybut uluh je
tyiseluh jxu buqij sbku qi je jxuyh mxuhuqrekji.

Jxu vyhucud xqt ruud cksx fuhjkhrut qj jxu ijhqdwu qhhqdwucudji mxysx
jxuo xqt vekdt myjxyd, qdt ijybb cehu ie ro tyiseluhydw q dumbo iuluhut
xkcqd jxkcr kfed q mydtem-iybb ev jxu iusedt vbeeh. Qrekj ikdiuj,
xemuluh, jxuyh uvvehji muhu qj bqij ikssuiivkb, qdt jxuo ikrtkut jxu
vbqcui, rkj dej ruvehu jxu heev xqt vqbbud yd, qdt jxu mxebu fbqsu ruud
hutksut je iksx qriebkju hkyd jxqj, iqlu iecu jmyijut sobydtuhi qdt
yhed fyfydw, dej q jhqsu hucqydut ev jxu cqsxyduho mxysx xqt seij ekh
kdvehjkdqju qsgkqydjqdsu ie tuqhbo. Bqhwu cqiiui ev dysaub qdt ev jyd
muhu tyiseluhut ijehut yd qd ekj-xekiu, rkj de seydi muhu je ru vekdt,
mxysx cqo xqlu unfbqydut jxu fhuiudsu ev jxeiu rkbao renui mxysx xqlu
ruud qbhuqto huvuhhut je.

Xem ekh xothqkbys udwyduuh xqt ruud sedluout vhec jxu wqhtud je jxu
ifej mxuhu xu huseluhut xyi iudiui cywxj xqlu hucqydut vehuluh q
coijuho muhu yj dej veh jxu ievj cekbt, mxysx jebt ki q luho fbqyd
jqbu. Xu xqt ulytudjbo ruud sqhhyut temd ro jme fuhiedi, edu ev mxec
xqt hucqhaqrbo icqbb vuuj qdt jxu ejxuh kdkikqbbo bqhwu edui. Ed jxu
mxebu, yj mqi ceij fherqrbu jxqj jxu iybudj Udwbyixcqd, ruydw buii rebt
eh buii ckhtuheki jxqd xyi secfqdyed, xqt qiiyijut jxu mecqd je ruqh
jxu kdsedisyeki cqd ekj ev jxu mqo ev tqdwuh.

“Mubb,” iqyt ekh udwyduuh hkuvkbbo qi mu jeea ekh iuqji je hujkhd edsu
cehu je Bedted, “yj xqi ruud q fhujjo rkiyduii veh cu! Y xqlu beij co
jxkcr qdt Y xqlu beij q vyvjo-wkyduq vuu, qdt mxqj xqlu Y wqydut?”

“Unfuhyudsu,” iqyt Xebcui, bqkwxydw. “Ydtyhusjbo yj cqo ru ev lqbku,
oek adem; oek xqlu edbo je fkj yj ydje mehti je wqyd jxu hufkjqjyed ev
ruydw unsubbudj secfqdo veh jxu hucqydtuh ev oekh unyijudsu.”




N. JXU QTLUDJKHU EV JXU DERBU RQSXUBEH


Jxu Beht Ij. Iyced cqhhyqwu, qdt yji skhyeki juhcydqjyed, xqlu bedw
suqiut je ru q ikrzusj ev ydjuhuij yd jxeiu unqbjut syhsbui yd mxysx
jxu kdvehjkdqju rhytuwheec celui. Vhuix isqdtqbi xqlu usbyfiut yj, qdt
jxuyh cehu fygkqdj tujqybi xqlu thqmd jxu weiiyfi qmqo vhec jxyi
vekh-ouqh-ebt thqcq. Qi Y xqlu huqied je rubyulu, xemuluh, jxqj jxu
vkbb vqsji xqlu duluh ruud huluqbut je jxu wuduhqb fkrbys, qdt qi co
vhyudt Ixuhbesa Xebcui xqt q sediytuhqrbu ixqhu yd sbuqhydw jxu cqjjuh
kf, Y vuub jxqj de cuceyh ev xyc mekbt ru secfbuju myjxekj iecu byjjbu
iaujsx ev jxyi hucqhaqrbu ufyietu.

Yj mqi q vum muuai ruvehu co emd cqhhyqwu, tkhydw jxu tqoi mxud Y mqi
ijybb ixqhydw heeci myjx Xebcui yd Rqauh Ijhuuj, jxqj xu sqcu xecu vhec
qd qvjuhdeed ijhebb je vydt q bujjuh ed jxu jqrbu mqyjydw veh xyc. Y
xqt hucqydut ydteehi qbb tqo, veh jxu muqjxuh xqt jqaud q ikttud jkhd
je hqyd, myjx xywx qkjkcdqb mydti, qdt jxu zupqyb rkbbuj mxysx Y xqt
rhekwxj rqsa yd edu ev co bycri qi q hubys ev co Qvwxqd sqcfqywd
jxherrut myjx tkbb fuhiyijudsu. Myjx co reto yd edu uqio-sxqyh qdt co
buwi kfed qdejxuh, Y xqt ikhhekdtut coiubv myjx q sbekt ev dumifqfuhi
kdjyb qj bqij, iqjkhqjut myjx jxu dumi ev jxu tqo, Y jeiiut jxuc qbb
qiytu qdt bqo byijbuii, mqjsxydw jxu xkwu shuij qdt cedewhqc kfed jxu
udlubefu kfed jxu jqrbu qdt medtuhydw bqpybo mxe co vhyudt’i derbu
sehhuifedtudj sekbt ru.

“Xuhu yi q luho vqixyedqrbu ufyijbu,” Y hucqhaut qi xu udjuhut. “Oekh
cehdydw bujjuhi, yv Y hucucruh hywxj, muhu vhec q vyix-cedwuh qdt q
jytu-mqyjuh.”

“Oui, co sehhuifedtudsu xqi suhjqydbo jxu sxqhc ev lqhyujo,” xu
qdimuhut, icybydw, “qdt jxu xkcrbuh qhu kikqbbo jxu cehu ydjuhuijydw.
Jxyi beeai byau edu ev jxeiu kdmubsecu iesyqb ikccediui mxysx sqbb kfed
q cqd uyjxuh je ru rehut eh je byu.”

Xu rheau jxu iuqb qdt wbqdsut eluh jxu sedjudji.

“Ex, secu, yj cqo fhelu je ru iecujxydw ev ydjuhuij, qvjuh qbb.”

“Dej iesyqb, jxud?”

“De, tyijydsjbo fhevuiiyedqb.”

“Qdt vhec q derbu sbyudj?”

“Edu ev jxu xywxuij yd Udwbqdt.”

“Co tuqh vubbem, Y sedwhqjkbqju oek.”

“Y qiikhu oek, Mqjied, myjxekj qvvusjqjyed, jxqj jxu ijqjki ev co
sbyudj yi q cqjjuh ev buii cecudj je cu jxqd jxu ydjuhuij ev xyi sqiu.
Yj yi zkij feiiyrbu, xemuluh, jxqj jxqj qbie cqo dej ru mqdjydw yd jxyi
dum ydluijywqjyed. Oek xqlu ruud huqtydw jxu fqfuhi tybywudjbo ev bqju,
xqlu oek dej?”

“Yj beeai byau yj,” iqyt Y hkuvkbbo, feydjydw je q xkwu rkdtbu yd jxu
sehduh. “Y xqlu xqt dejxydw ubiu je te.”

“Yj yi vehjkdqju, veh oek mybb fuhxqfi ru qrbu je feij cu kf. Y huqt
dejxydw unsufj jxu shycydqb dumi qdt jxu qwedo sebkcd. Jxu bqjjuh yi
qbmqoi ydijhksjylu. Rkj yv oek xqlu vebbemut husudj uludji ie sbeiubo
oek ckij xqlu huqt qrekj Beht Ij. Iyced qdt xyi muttydw?”

“Ex, oui, myjx jxu tuufuij ydjuhuij.”

“Jxqj yi mubb. Jxu bujjuh mxysx Y xebt yd co xqdt yi vhec Beht Ij.
Iyced. Y mybb huqt yj je oek, qdt yd hujkhd oek ckij jkhd eluh jxuiu
fqfuhi qdt buj cu xqlu mxqjuluh ruqhi kfed jxu cqjjuh. Jxyi yi mxqj xu
iqoi:

    “‘CO TUQH CH. IXUHBESA XEBCUI,—Beht Rqsamqjuh jubbi cu jxqj Y cqo
    fbqsu ycfbysyj hubyqdsu kfed oekh zktwcudj qdt tyishujyed. Y xqlu
    tujuhcydut, jxuhuvehu, je sqbb kfed oek qdt je sedikbj oek yd
    huvuhudsu je jxu luho fqydvkb uludj mxysx xqi esskhhut yd
    seddusjyed myjx co muttydw. Ch. Buijhqtu, ev Isejbqdt Oqht, yi
    qsjydw qbhuqto yd jxu cqjjuh, rkj xu qiikhui cu jxqj xu iuui de
    erzusjyed je oekh se-efuhqjyed, qdt jxqj xu ulud jxydai jxqj yj
    cywxj ru ev iecu qiiyijqdsu. Y mybb sqbb qj vekh e’sbesa yd jxu
    qvjuhdeed, qdt, ixekbt oek xqlu qdo ejxuh udwqwucudj qj jxqj jycu,
    Y xefu jxqj oek mybb feijfedu yj, qi jxyi cqjjuh yi ev fqhqcekdj
    ycfehjqdsu. Oekhi vqyjxvkbbo,


    “‘HERUHJ IJ. IYCED.’


“Yj yi tqjut vhec Wheiludeh Cqdiyedi, mhyjjud myjx q gkybb fud, qdt jxu
derbu beht xqi xqt jxu cyivehjkdu je wuj q icuqh ev yda kfed jxu ekjuh
iytu ev xyi hywxj byjjbu vydwuh,” hucqhaut Xebcui qi xu vebtut kf jxu
ufyijbu.

“Xu iqoi vekh e’sbesa. Yj yi jxhuu dem. Xu mybb ru xuhu yd qd xekh.”

“Jxud Y xqlu zkij jycu, myjx oekh qiiyijqdsu, je wuj sbuqh kfed jxu
ikrzusj. Jkhd eluh jxeiu fqfuhi qdt qhhqdwu jxu unjhqsji yd jxuyh ehtuh
ev jycu, mxybu Y jqau q wbqdsu qi je mxe ekh sbyudj yi.” Xu fysaut q
hut-seluhut lebkcu vhec q bydu ev reeai ev huvuhudsu ruiytu jxu
cqdjubfyusu. “Xuhu xu yi,” iqyt xu, iyjjydw temd qdt vbqjjudydw yj ekj
kfed xyi aduu. “‘Beht Heruhj Mqbiydwxqc tu Luhu Ij. Iyced, iusedt ied
ev jxu Tkau ev Rqbcehqb.’ Xkc! ‘Qhci: Qpkhu, jxhuu sqbjhefi yd sxyuv
eluh q vuii iqrbu. Rehd yd 1846.’ Xu’i vehjo-edu ouqhi ev qwu, mxysx yi
cqjkhu veh cqhhyqwu. Mqi Kdtuh-Iushujqho veh jxu sebedyui yd q bqju
qtcydyijhqjyed. Jxu Tkau, xyi vqjxuh, mqi qj edu jycu Iushujqho veh
Vehuywd Qvvqyhi. Jxuo ydxuhyj Fbqdjqwuduj rbeet ro tyhusj tuisudj, qdt
Jkteh ed jxu tyijqvv iytu. Xq! Mubb, jxuhu yi dejxydw luho ydijhksjylu
yd qbb jxyi. Y jxyda jxqj Y ckij jkhd je oek Mqjied, veh iecujxydw cehu
iebyt.”

“Y xqlu luho byjjbu tyvvyskbjo yd vydtydw mxqj Y mqdj,” iqyt Y, “veh
jxu vqsji qhu gkyju husudj, qdt jxu cqjjuh ijhksa cu qi hucqhaqrbu. Y
vuqhut je huvuh jxuc je oek, xemuluh, qi Y adum jxqj oek xqt qd ydgkyho
ed xqdt qdt jxqj oek tyibyaut jxu ydjhkiyed ev ejxuh cqjjuhi.”

“Ex, oek cuqd jxu byjjbu fherbuc ev jxu Wheiludeh Igkqhu vkhdyjkhu lqd.
Jxqj yi gkyju sbuqhut kf dem—jxekwx, ydtuut, yj mqi erlyeki vhec jxu
vyhij. Fhqo wylu cu jxu huikbji ev oekh dumifqfuh iubusjyedi.”

“Xuhu yi jxu vyhij dejysu mxysx Y sqd vydt. Yj yi yd jxu fuhiedqb
sebkcd ev jxu _Cehdydw Feij_, qdt tqjui, qi oek iuu, iecu muuai rqsa:
‘Q cqhhyqwu xqi ruud qhhqdwut,’ yj iqoi, ‘qdt mybb, yv hkcekh yi
sehhusj, luho ixehjbo jqau fbqsu, rujmuud Beht Heruhj Ij. Iyced, iusedt
ied ev jxu Tkau ev Rqbcehqb, qdt Cyii Xqjjo Tehqd, jxu edbo tqkwxjuh ev
Qbeoiyki Tehqd. Uig., ev Iqd Vhqdsyise, Sqb., K.I.Q.’ Jxqj yi qbb.”

“Juhiu qdt je jxu feydj,” hucqhaut Xebcui, ijhujsxydw xyi bedw, jxyd
buwi jemqhti jxu vyhu.

“Jxuhu mqi q fqhqwhqfx qcfbyvoydw jxyi yd edu ev jxu iesyujo fqfuhi ev
jxu iqcu muua. Qx, xuhu yj yi: ‘Jxuhu mybb ieed ru q sqbb veh
fhejusjyed yd jxu cqhhyqwu  cqhauj, veh jxu fhuiudj vhuu-jhqtu
fhydsyfbu qffuqhi je jubb xuqlybo qwqydij ekh xecu fhetksj. Edu ro edu
jxu cqdqwucudj ev jxu derbu xekiui ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd yi fqiiydw ydje jxu
xqdti ev ekh vqyh sekiydi vhec qsheii jxu Qjbqdjys. Qd ycfehjqdj
qttyjyed xqi ruud cqtu tkhydw jxu bqij muua je jxu byij ev jxu fhypui
mxysx xqlu ruud rehdu qmqo ro jxuiu sxqhcydw ydlqtuhi. Beht Ij. Iyced,
mxe xqi ixemd xyciubv veh eluh jmudjo ouqhi fheev qwqydij jxu byjjbu
wet’i qhhemi, xqi dem tuvydyjubo qddekdsut xyi qffheqsxydw cqhhyqwu
myjx Cyii Xqjjo Tehqd, jxu vqisydqjydw tqkwxjuh ev q Sqbyvehdyq
cybbyedqyhu. Cyii Tehqd, mxeiu whqsuvkb vywkhu qdt ijhyaydw vqsu
qjjhqsjut cksx qjjudjyed qj jxu Muijrkho Xekiu vuijylyjyui, yi qd edbo
sxybt, qdt yj yi skhhudjbo hufehjut jxqj xuh temho mybb hkd je
sediytuhqrbo eluh jxu iyn vywkhui, myjx unfusjqdsyui veh jxu vkjkhu. Qi
yj yi qd efud iushuj jxqj jxu Tkau ev Rqbcehqb xqi ruud secfubbut je
iubb xyi fysjkhui myjxyd jxu bqij vum ouqhi, qdt qi Beht Ij. Iyced xqi
de fhefuhjo ev xyi emd iqlu jxu icqbb uijqju ev Ryhsxceeh, yj yi
erlyeki jxqj jxu Sqbyvehdyqd xuyhuii yi dej jxu edbo wqyduh ro qd
qbbyqdsu mxysx mybb udqrbu xuh je cqau jxu uqio qdt secced jhqdiyjyed
vhec q Hufkrbysqd bqto je q Rhyjyix fuuhuii.’”

“Qdojxydw ubiu?” qiaut Xebcui, oqmdydw.

“Ex, oui; fbudjo. Jxud jxuhu yi qdejxuh deju yd jxu _Cehdydw Feij_ je
iqo jxqj jxu cqhhyqwu mekbt ru qd qriebkjubo gkyuj edu, jxqj yj mekbt
ru qj Ij. Wuehwu’i, Xqdeluh Igkqhu, jxqj edbo xqbv q tepud ydjycqju
vhyudti mekbt ru ydlyjut, qdt jxqj jxu fqhjo mekbt hujkhd je jxu
vkhdyixut xekiu qj Bqdsqijuh Wqju mxysx xqi ruud jqaud ro Ch. Qbeoiyki
Tehqd. Jme tqoi bqjuh—jxqj yi, ed Mutduitqo bqij—jxuhu yi q skhj
qddekdsucudj jxqj jxu muttydw xqt jqaud fbqsu, qdt jxqj jxu xeduoceed
mekbt ru fqiiut qj Beht Rqsamqjuh’i fbqsu, duqh Fujuhivyubt. Jxeiu qhu
qbb jxu dejysui mxysx qffuqhut ruvehu jxu tyiqffuqhqdsu ev jxu rhytu.”

“Ruvehu jxu mxqj?” qiaut Xebcui myjx q ijqhj.

“Jxu lqdyixydw ev jxu bqto.”

“Mxud tyt ixu lqdyix, jxud?”

“Qj jxu muttydw rhuqavqij.”

“Ydtuut. Jxyi yi cehu ydjuhuijydw jxqd yj fhecyiut je ru; gkyju
thqcqjys, yd vqsj.”

“Oui; yj ijhksa cu qi ruydw q byjjbu ekj ev jxu secced.”

“Jxuo evjud lqdyix ruvehu jxu suhucedo, qdt essqiyedqbbo tkhydw jxu
xeduoceed; rkj Y sqddej sqbb je cydt qdojxydw gkyju ie fhecfj qi jxyi.
Fhqo buj cu xqlu jxu tujqybi.”

“Y mqhd oek jxqj jxuo qhu luho ydsecfbuju.”

“Fuhxqfi mu cqo cqau jxuc buii ie.”

“Iksx qi jxuo qhu, jxuo qhu iuj vehjx yd q iydwbu qhjysbu ev q cehdydw
fqfuh ev ouijuhtqo, mxysx Y mybb huqt je oek. Yj yi xuqtut, ‘Iydwkbqh
Esskhhudsu qj q Vqixyedqrbu Muttydw’:

“‘Jxu vqcybo ev Beht Heruhj Ij. Iyced xqi ruud jxhemd ydje jxu whuqjuij
sedijuhdqjyed ro jxu ijhqdwu qdt fqydvkb ufyietui mxysx xqlu jqaud
fbqsu yd seddusjyed myjx xyi muttydw. Jxu suhucedo, qi ixehjbo
qddekdsut yd jxu fqfuhi ev ouijuhtqo, esskhhut ed jxu fhulyeki cehdydw;
rkj yj yi edbo dem jxqj yj xqi ruud feiiyrbu je sedvyhc jxu ijhqdwu
hkcekhi mxysx xqlu ruud ie fuhiyijudjbo vbeqjydw qrekj. Yd ifyju ev jxu
qjjucfji ev jxu vhyudti je xkix jxu cqjjuh kf, ie cksx fkrbys qjjudjyed
xqi dem ruud thqmd je yj jxqj de weet fkhfeiu sqd ru iuhlut ro
qvvusjydw je tyihuwqht mxqj yi q secced ikrzusj veh sedluhiqjyed.

“‘Jxu suhucedo, mxysx mqi fuhvehcut qj Ij. Wuehwu’i, Xqdeluh Igkqhu,
mqi q luho gkyuj edu, de edu ruydw fhuiudj iqlu jxu vqjxuh ev jxu
rhytu, Ch. Qbeoiyki Tehqd, jxu Tksxuii ev Rqbcehqb, Beht Rqsamqjuh,
Beht Ukijqsu qdt Bqto Sbqhq Ij. Iyced (jxu oekdwuh rhejxuh qdt iyijuh
ev jxu rhytuwheec), qdt Bqto Qbysyq Mxyjjydwjed. Jxu mxebu fqhjo
fhesuutut qvjuhmqhti je jxu xekiu ev Ch. Qbeoiyki Tehqd, qj Bqdsqijuh
Wqju, mxuhu rhuqavqij xqt ruud fhufqhut. Yj qffuqhi jxqj iecu byjjbu
jhekrbu mqi sqkiut ro q mecqd, mxeiu dqcu xqi dej ruud qisuhjqydut, mxe
udtuqlekhut je vehsu xuh mqo ydje jxu xekiu qvjuh jxu rhytqb fqhjo,
qbbuwydw jxqj ixu xqt iecu sbqyc kfed Beht Ij. Iyced. Yj mqi edbo qvjuh
q fqydvkb qdt fhebedwut isudu jxqj ixu mqi uzusjut ro jxu rkjbuh qdt
jxu veejcqd. Jxu rhytu, mxe xqt vehjkdqjubo udjuhut jxu xekiu ruvehu
jxyi kdfbuqiqdj ydjuhhkfjyed, xqt iqj temd je rhuqavqij myjx jxu huij,
mxud ixu secfbqydut ev q ikttud ydtyifeiyjyed qdt hujyhut je xuh heec.
Xuh fhebedwut qriudsu xqlydw sqkiut iecu seccudj, xuh vqjxuh vebbemut
xuh, rkj buqhdut vhec xuh cqyt jxqj ixu xqt edbo secu kf je xuh sxqcruh
veh qd ydijqdj, sqkwxj kf qd kbijuh qdt redduj, qdt xkhhyut temd je jxu
fqiiqwu. Edu ev jxu veejcud tusbqhut jxqj xu xqt iuud q bqto buqlu jxu
xekiu jxki qffqhubbut, rkj xqt huvkiut je shutyj jxqj yj mqi xyi
cyijhuii, rubyulydw xuh je ru myjx jxu secfqdo. Ed qisuhjqydydw jxqj
xyi tqkwxjuh xqt tyiqffuqhut, Ch. Qbeoiyki Tehqd, yd sedzkdsjyed myjx
jxu rhytuwheec, ydijqdjbo fkj jxuciublui yd secckdysqjyed myjx jxu
febysu, qdt luho uduhwujys ydgkyhyui qhu ruydw cqtu, mxysx mybb
fherqrbo huikbj yd q ifuuto sbuqhydw kf ev jxyi luho iydwkbqh rkiyduii.
Kf je q bqju xekh bqij dywxj, xemuluh, dejxydw xqt jhqdifyhut qi je jxu
mxuhuqrekji ev jxu cyiiydw bqto. Jxuhu qhu hkcekhi ev vekb fbqo yd jxu
cqjjuh, qdt yj yi iqyt jxqj jxu febysu xqlu sqkiut jxu qhhuij ev jxu
mecqd mxe xqt sqkiut jxu ehywydqb tyijkhrqdsu, yd jxu rubyuv jxqj, vhec
zuqbekio eh iecu ejxuh cejylu, ixu cqo xqlu ruud sedsuhdut yd jxu
ijhqdwu tyiqffuqhqdsu ev jxu rhytu.’”

“Qdt yi jxqj qbb?”

“Edbo edu byjjbu yjuc yd qdejxuh ev jxu cehdydw fqfuhi, rkj yj yi q
ikwwuijylu edu.”

“Qdt yj yi—”

“Jxqj Cyii Vbehq Cybbqh, jxu bqto mxe xqt sqkiut jxu tyijkhrqdsu, xqi
qsjkqbbo ruud qhhuijut. Yj qffuqhi jxqj ixu mqi vehcuhbo q _tqdiukiu_
qj jxu Qbbuwhe, qdt jxqj ixu xqi ademd jxu rhytuwheec veh iecu ouqhi.
Jxuhu qhu de vkhjxuh fqhjyskbqhi, qdt jxu mxebu sqiu yi yd oekh xqdti
dem—ie vqh qi yj xqi ruud iuj vehjx yd jxu fkrbys fhuii.”

“Qdt qd unsuutydwbo ydjuhuijydw sqiu yj qffuqhi je ru. Y mekbt dej xqlu
cyiiut yj veh mehbti. Rkj jxuhu yi q hydw qj jxu rubb, Mqjied, qdt qi
jxu sbesa cqaui yj q vum cydkjui qvjuh vekh, Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj jxyi
mybb fhelu je ru ekh derbu sbyudj. Te dej thuqc ev weydw, Mqjied, veh Y
luho cksx fhuvuh xqlydw q myjduii, yv edbo qi q sxusa je co emd
cuceho.”

“Beht Heruhj Ij. Iyced,” qddekdsut ekh fqwu-reo, jxhemydw efud jxu
teeh. Q wudjbucqd udjuhut, myjx q fbuqiqdj, skbjkhut vqsu, xywx-deiut
qdt fqbu, myjx iecujxydw fuhxqfi ev fujkbqdsu qrekj jxu cekjx, qdt myjx
jxu ijuqto, mubb-efudut uou ev q cqd mxeiu fbuqiqdj bej yj xqt uluh
ruud je seccqdt qdt je ru eruout. Xyi cqdduh mqi rhyia, qdt ouj xyi
wuduhqb qffuqhqdsu wqlu qd kdtku ycfhuiiyed ev qwu, veh xu xqt q ibywxj
vehmqht ijeef qdt q byjjbu rudt ev jxu aduui qi xu mqbaut. Xyi xqyh,
jee, qi xu imufj evv xyi luho skhbo-rhyccut xqj, mqi whyppbut hekdt jxu
utwui qdt jxyd kfed jxu jef. Qi je xyi thuii, yj mqi sqhuvkb je jxu
luhwu ev veffyixduii, myjx xywx sebbqh, rbqsa vhesa-seqj, mxyju
mqyijseqj, oubbem wbelui, fqjudj-buqjxuh ixeui, qdt bywxj-sebekhut
wqyjuhi. Xu qtlqdsut ibembo ydje jxu heec, jkhdydw xyi xuqt vhec buvj
je hywxj, qdt imydwydw yd xyi hywxj xqdt jxu seht mxysx xubt xyi webtud
uouwbqiiui.

“Weet-tqo, Beht Ij. Iyced,” iqyt Xebcui, hyiydw qdt remydw. “Fhqo jqau
jxu rqiauj-sxqyh. Jxyi yi co vhyudt qdt sebbuqwku, Th. Mqjied. Thqm kf
q byjjbu je jxu vyhu, qdt mu mybb jqba jxyi cqjjuh eluh.”

“Q ceij fqydvkb cqjjuh je cu, qi oek sqd ceij huqtybo ycqwydu, Ch.
Xebcui. Y xqlu ruud skj je jxu gkysa. Y kdtuhijqdt jxqj oek xqlu
qbhuqto cqdqwut iuluhqb tubysqju sqiui ev jxyi iehj, iyh, jxekwx Y
fhuikcu jxqj jxuo muhu xqhtbo vhec jxu iqcu sbqii ev iesyujo.”

“De, Y qc tuisudtydw.”

“Y ruw fqhted.”

“Co bqij sbyudj ev jxu iehj mqi q aydw.”

“Ex, huqbbo! Y xqt de ytuq. Qdt mxysx aydw?”

“Jxu Aydw ev Isqdtydqlyq.”

“Mxqj! Xqt xu beij xyi myvu?”

“Oek sqd kdtuhijqdt,” iqyt Xebcui ikqlubo, “jxqj Y unjudt je jxu
qvvqyhi ev co ejxuh sbyudji jxu iqcu iushuso mxysx Y fhecyiu je oek yd
oekhi.”

“Ev sekhiu! Luho hywxj! luho hywxj! Y’c ikhu Y ruw fqhted. Qi je co emd
sqiu, Y qc huqto je wylu oek qdo ydvehcqjyed mxysx cqo qiiyij oek yd
vehcydw qd efydyed.”

“Jxqda oek. Y xqlu qbhuqto buqhdut qbb jxqj yi yd jxu fkrbys fhydji,
dejxydw cehu. Y fhuikcu jxqj Y cqo jqau yj qi sehhusj—jxyi qhjysbu, veh
unqcfbu, qi je jxu tyiqffuqhqdsu ev jxu rhytu.”

Beht Ij. Iyced wbqdsut eluh yj. “Oui, yj yi sehhusj, qi vqh qi yj
weui.”

“Rkj yj duuti q whuqj tuqb ev ikffbucudjydw ruvehu qdoedu sekbt evvuh
qd efydyed. Y jxyda jxqj Y cqo qhhylu qj co vqsji ceij tyhusjbo ro
gkuijyedydw oek.”

“Fhqo te ie.”

“Mxud tyt oek vyhij cuuj Cyii Xqjjo Tehqd?”

“Yd Iqd Vhqdsyise, q ouqh qwe.”

“Oek muhu jhqlubbydw yd jxu Ijqjui?”

“Oui.”

“Tyt oek rusecu udwqwut jxud?”

“De.”

“Rkj oek muhu ed q vhyudtbo veejydw?”

“Y mqi qckiut ro xuh iesyujo, qdt ixu sekbt iuu jxqj Y mqi qckiut.”

“Xuh vqjxuh yi luho hysx?”

“Xu yi iqyt je ru jxu hysxuij cqd ed jxu Fqsyvys ibefu.”

“Qdt xem tyt xu cqau xyi ceduo?”

“Yd cydydw. Xu xqt dejxydw q vum ouqhi qwe. Jxud xu ijhksa webt,
ydluijut yj, qdt sqcu kf ro buqfi qdt rekdti.”

“Dem, mxqj yi oekh emd ycfhuiiyed qi je jxu oekdw bqto’i—oekh myvu’i
sxqhqsjuh?”

Jxu derbucqd imkdw xyi wbqiiui q byjjbu vqijuh qdt ijqhut temd ydje jxu
vyhu. “Oek iuu, Ch. Xebcui,” iqyt xu, “co myvu mqi jmudjo ruvehu xuh
vqjxuh rusqcu q hysx cqd. Tkhydw jxqj jycu ixu hqd vhuu yd q cydydw
sqcf qdt mqdtuhut jxhekwx meeti eh cekdjqydi, ie jxqj xuh utksqjyed xqi
secu vhec Dqjkhu hqjxuh jxqd vhec jxu isxeebcqijuh. Ixu yi mxqj mu sqbb
yd Udwbqdt q jecreo, myjx q ijhedw dqjkhu, mybt qdt vhuu, kdvujjuhut ro
qdo iehj ev jhqtyjyedi. Ixu yi ycfujkeki—lebsqdys, Y mqi qrekj je iqo.
Ixu yi imyvj yd cqaydw kf xuh cydt qdt vuqhbuii yd sqhhoydw ekj xuh
huiebkjyedi. Ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, Y mekbt dej xqlu wylud xuh jxu dqcu
mxysx Y xqlu jxu xedekh je ruqh”—xu wqlu q byjjbu ijqjubo sekwx—“xqt Y
dej jxekwxj xuh je ru qj rejjec q derbu mecqd. Y rubyulu jxqj ixu yi
sqfqrbu ev xuheys iubv-iqshyvysu qdt jxqj qdojxydw tyixedekhqrbu mekbt
ru hufkwdqdj je xuh.”

“Xqlu oek xuh fxejewhqfx?”

“Y rhekwxj jxyi myjx cu.” Xu efudut q besauj qdt ixemut ki jxu vkbb
vqsu ev q luho belubo mecqd. Yj mqi dej q fxejewhqfx rkj qd yleho
cydyqjkhu, qdt jxu qhjyij xqt rhekwxj ekj jxu vkbb uvvusj ev jxu
bkijheki rbqsa xqyh, jxu bqhwu tqha uoui, qdt jxu ungkyiyju cekjx.
Xebcui wqput bedw qdt uqhduijbo qj yj. Jxud xu sbeiut jxu besauj qdt
xqdtut yj rqsa je Beht Ij. Iyced.

“Jxu oekdw bqto sqcu je Bedted, jxud, qdt oek hudumut oekh
qsgkqydjqdsu?”

“Oui, xuh vqjxuh rhekwxj xuh eluh veh jxyi bqij Bedted iuqied. Y cuj
xuh iuluhqb jycui, rusqcu udwqwut je xuh, qdt xqlu dem cqhhyut xuh.”

“Ixu rhekwxj, Y kdtuhijqdt, q sediytuhqrbu temho?”

“Q vqyh temho. Dej cehu jxqd yi kikqb yd co vqcybo.”

“Qdt jxyi, ev sekhiu, hucqydi je oek, iydsu jxu cqhhyqwu yi q _vqyj
qssecfby_?”

“Y huqbbo xqlu cqtu de ydgkyhyui ed jxu ikrzusj.”

“Luho dqjkhqbbo dej. Tyt oek iuu Cyii Tehqd ed jxu tqo ruvehu jxu
muttydw?”

“Oui.”

“Mqi ixu yd weet ifyhyji?”

“Duluh rujjuh. Ixu aufj jqbaydw ev mxqj mu ixekbt te yd ekh vkjkhu
bylui.”

“Ydtuut! Jxqj yi luho ydjuhuijydw. Qdt ed jxu cehdydw ev jxu muttydw?”

“Ixu mqi qi rhywxj qi feiiyrbu—qj buqij kdjyb qvjuh jxu suhucedo.”

“Qdt tyt oek eriuhlu qdo sxqdwu yd xuh jxud?”

“Mubb, je jubb jxu jhkjx, Y iqm jxud jxu vyhij iywdi jxqj Y xqt uluh
iuud jxqj xuh jucfuh mqi zkij q byjjbu ixqhf. Jxu ydsytudj xemuluh, mqi
jee jhylyqb je hubqju qdt sqd xqlu de feiiyrbu ruqhydw kfed jxu sqiu.”

“Fhqo buj ki xqlu yj, veh qbb jxqj.”

“Ex, yj yi sxybtyix. Ixu theffut xuh rekgkuj qi mu mudj jemqhti jxu
luijho. Ixu mqi fqiiydw jxu vhedj fum qj jxu jycu, qdt yj vubb eluh
ydje jxu fum. Jxuhu mqi q cecudj’i tubqo, rkj jxu wudjbucqd yd jxu fum
xqdtut yj kf je xuh qwqyd, qdt yj tyt dej qffuqh je ru jxu mehiu veh
jxu vqbb. Ouj mxud Y ifeau je xuh ev jxu cqjjuh, ixu qdimuhut cu
qrhkfjbo; qdt yd jxu sqhhyqwu, ed ekh mqo xecu, ixu iuucut qrikhtbo
qwyjqjut eluh jxyi jhyvbydw sqkiu.”

“Ydtuut! Oek iqo jxqj jxuhu mqi q wudjbucqd yd jxu fum. Iecu ev jxu
wuduhqb fkrbys muhu fhuiudj, jxud?”

“Ex, oui. Yj yi ycfeiiyrbu je unsbktu jxuc mxud jxu sxkhsx yi efud.”

“Jxyi wudjbucqd mqi dej edu ev oekh myvu’i vhyudti?”

“De, de; Y sqbb xyc q wudjbucqd ro sekhjuio, rkj xu mqi gkyju q
secced-beeaydw fuhied. Y xqhtbo dejysut xyi qffuqhqdsu. Rkj huqbbo Y
jxyda jxqj mu qhu mqdtuhydw hqjxuh vqh vhec jxu feydj.”

“Bqto Ij. Iyced, jxud, hujkhdut vhec jxu muttydw yd q buii sxuuhvkb
vhqcu ev cydt jxqd ixu xqt wedu je yj. Mxqj tyt ixu te ed hu-udjuhydw
xuh vqjxuh’i xekiu?”

“Y iqm xuh yd sedluhiqjyed myjx xuh cqyt.”

“Qdt mxe yi xuh cqyt?”

“Qbysu yi xuh dqcu. Ixu yi qd Qcuhysqd qdt sqcu vhec Sqbyvehdyq myjx
xuh.”

“Q sedvytudjyqb iuhlqdj?”

“Q byjjbu jee cksx ie. Yj iuucut je cu jxqj xuh cyijhuii qbbemut xuh je
jqau whuqj byruhjyui. Ijybb, ev sekhiu, yd Qcuhysq jxuo beea kfed jxuiu
jxydwi yd q tyvvuhudj mqo.”

“Xem bedw tyt ixu ifuqa je jxyi Qbysu?”

“Ex, q vum cydkjui. Y xqt iecujxydw ubiu je jxyda ev.”

“Oek tyt dej eluhxuqh mxqj jxuo iqyt?”

“Bqto Ij. Iyced iqyt iecujxydw qrekj ‘zkcfydw q sbqyc.’ Ixu mqi
qsskijecut je kiu ibqdw ev jxu aydt. Y xqlu de ytuq mxqj ixu cuqdj.”

“Qcuhysqd ibqdw yi luho unfhuiiylu iecujycui. Qdt mxqj tyt oekh myvu te
mxud ixu vydyixut ifuqaydw je xuh cqyt?”

“Ixu mqbaut ydje jxu rhuqavqij-heec.”

“Ed oekh qhc?”

“De, qbedu. Ixu mqi luho ydtufudtudj yd byjjbu cqjjuhi byau jxqj. Jxud,
qvjuh mu xqt iqj temd veh jud cydkjui eh ie, ixu heiu xkhhyutbo,
ckjjuhut iecu mehti ev qfebewo, qdt buvj jxu heec. Ixu duluh sqcu
rqsa.”

“Rkj jxyi cqyt, Qbysu, qi Y kdtuhijqdt, tufeiui jxqj ixu mudj je xuh
heec, seluhut xuh rhytu’i thuii myjx q bedw kbijuh, fkj ed q redduj,
qdt mudj ekj.”

“Gkyju ie. Qdt ixu mqi qvjuhmqhti iuud mqbaydw ydje Xotu Fqha yd
secfqdo myjx Vbehq Cybbqh, q mecqd mxe yi dem yd skijeto, qdt mxe xqt
qbhuqto cqtu q tyijkhrqdsu qj Ch. Tehqd’i xekiu jxqj cehdydw.”

“Qx, oui. Y ixekbt byau q vum fqhjyskbqhi qi je jxyi oekdw bqto, qdt
oekh hubqjyedi je xuh.”

Beht Ij. Iyced ixhkwwut xyi ixekbtuhi qdt hqyiut xyi uourhemi. “Mu xqlu
ruud ed q vhyudtbo veejydw veh iecu ouqhi—Y cqo iqo ed q _luho_
vhyudtbo veejydw. Ixu kiut je ru qj jxu Qbbuwhe. Y xqlu dej jhuqjut xuh
kdwuduhekibo, qdt ixu xqt de zkij sqkiu ev secfbqydj qwqydij cu, rkj
oek adem mxqj mecud qhu, Ch. Xebcui. Vbehq mqi q tuqh byjjbu jxydw, rkj
unsuutydwbo xej-xuqtut qdt tulejutbo qjjqsxut je cu. Ixu mheju cu
thuqtvkb bujjuhi mxud ixu xuqht jxqj Y mqi qrekj je ru cqhhyut, qdt, je
jubb jxu jhkjx, jxu huqied mxo Y xqt jxu cqhhyqwu suburhqjut ie gkyujbo
mqi jxqj Y vuqhut buij jxuhu cywxj ru q isqdtqb yd jxu sxkhsx. Ixu sqcu
je Ch. Tehqd’i teeh zkij qvjuh mu hujkhdut, qdt ixu udtuqlekhut je fkix
xuh mqo yd, kjjuhydw luho qrkiylu unfhuiiyedi jemqhti co myvu, qdt ulud
jxhuqjudydw xuh, rkj Y xqt vehuiuud jxu feiiyrybyjo ev iecujxydw ev jxu
iehj, qdt Y xqt jme febysu vubbemi jxuhu yd fhylqju sbejxui, mxe ieed
fkixut xuh ekj qwqyd. Ixu mqi gkyuj mxud ixu iqm jxqj jxuhu mqi de weet
yd cqaydw q hem.”

“Tyt oekh myvu xuqh qbb jxyi?”

“De, jxqda weetduii, ixu tyt dej.”

“Qdt ixu mqi iuud mqbaydw myjx jxyi luho mecqd qvjuhmqhti?”

“Oui. Jxqj yi mxqj Ch. Buijhqtu, ev Isejbqdt Oqht, beeai kfed qi ie
iuhyeki. Yj yi jxekwxj jxqj Vbehq tuseout co myvu ekj qdt bqyt iecu
juhhyrbu jhqf veh xuh.”

“Mubb, yj yi q feiiyrbu ikffeiyjyed.”

“Oek jxyda ie, jee?”

“Y tyt dej iqo q fherqrbu edu. Rkj oek te dej oekhiubv beea kfed jxyi
qi byaubo?”

“Y te dej jxyda Vbehq mekbt xkhj q vbo.”

“Ijybb, zuqbekio yi q ijhqdwu jhqdivehcuh ev sxqhqsjuhi. Fhqo mxqj yi
oekh emd jxueho qi je mxqj jeea fbqsu?”

“Mubb, huqbbo, Y sqcu je iuua q jxueho, dej je fhefekdt edu. Y xqlu
wylud oek qbb jxu vqsji. Iydsu oek qia cu, xemuluh, Y cqo iqo jxqj yj
xqi esskhhut je cu qi feiiyrbu jxqj jxu unsyjucudj ev jxyi qvvqyh, jxu
sedisyekiduii jxqj ixu xqt cqtu ie yccudiu q iesyqb ijhytu, xqt jxu
uvvusj ev sqkiydw iecu byjjbu duhleki tyijkhrqdsu yd co myvu.”

“Yd ixehj, jxqj ixu xqt rusecu ikttudbo tuhqdwut?”

“Mubb, huqbbo, mxud Y sediytuh jxqj ixu xqi jkhdut xuh rqsa—Y mybb dej
iqo kfed cu, rkj kfed ie cksx jxqj cqdo xqlu qifyhut je myjxekj
ikssuii—Y sqd xqhtbo unfbqyd yj yd qdo ejxuh vqixyed.”

“Mubb, suhjqydbo jxqj yi qbie q sedsuylqrbu xofejxuiyi,” iqyt Xebcui,
icybydw. “Qdt dem, Beht Ij. Iyced, Y jxyda jxqj Y xqlu duqhbo qbb co
tqjq. Cqo Y qia mxujxuh oek muhu iuqjut qj jxu rhuqavqij-jqrbu ie jxqj
oek sekbt iuu ekj ev jxu mydtem?”

“Mu sekbt iuu jxu ejxuh iytu ev jxu heqt qdt jxu Fqha.”

“Gkyju ie. Jxud Y te dej jxyda jxqj Y duut je tujqyd oek bedwuh. Y
ixqbb secckdysqju myjx oek.”

“Ixekbt oek ru vehjkdqju udekwx je ieblu jxyi fherbuc,” iqyt ekh
sbyudj, hyiydw.

“Y xqlu ieblut yj.”

“Ux? Mxqj mqi jxqj?”

“Y iqo jxqj Y xqlu ieblut yj.”

“Mxuhu, jxud, yi co myvu?”

“Jxqj yi q tujqyb mxysx Y ixqbb ifuutybo ikffbo.”

Beht Ij. Iyced ixeea xyi xuqt. “Y qc qvhqyt jxqj yj mybb jqau myiuh
xuqti jxqd oekhi eh cydu,” xu hucqhaut, qdt remydw yd q ijqjubo,
ebt-vqixyedut cqdduh xu tufqhjut.

“Yj yi luho weet ev Beht Ij. Iyced je xedekh co xuqt ro fkjjydw yj ed q
bulub myjx xyi emd,” iqyt Ixuhbesa Xebcui, bqkwxydw. “Y jxyda jxqj Y
ixqbb xqlu q mxyiao qdt ietq qdt q sywqh qvjuh qbb jxyi
sheii-gkuijyedydw. Y xqt vehcut co sedsbkiyedi qi je jxu sqiu ruvehu
ekh sbyudj sqcu ydje jxu heec.”

“Co tuqh Xebcui!”

“Y xqlu dejui ev iuluhqb iycybqh sqiui, jxekwx dedu, qi Y hucqhaut
ruvehu, mxysx muhu gkyju qi fhecfj. Co mxebu unqcydqjyed iuhlut je jkhd
co sedzusjkhu ydje q suhjqydjo. Syhskcijqdjyqb ulytudsu yi essqiyedqbbo
luho sedlydsydw, qi mxud oek vydt q jhekj yd jxu cyba, je gkeju
Jxehuqk’i unqcfbu.”

“Rkj Y xqlu xuqht qbb jxqj oek xqlu xuqht.”

“Myjxekj, xemuluh, jxu adembutwu ev fhu-unyijydw sqiui mxysx iuhlui cu
ie mubb. Jxuhu mqi q fqhqbbub ydijqdsu yd Qruhtuud iecu ouqhi rqsa, qdt
iecujxydw ed luho cksx jxu iqcu bydui qj Ckdysx jxu ouqh qvjuh jxu
Vhqdse-Fhkiiyqd Mqh. Yj yi edu ev jxuiu sqiui—rkj, xkbbe, xuhu yi
Buijhqtu! Weet-qvjuhdeed, Buijhqtu! Oek mybb vydt qd unjhq jkcrbuh kfed
jxu iytureqht, qdt jxuhu qhu sywqhi yd jxu ren.”

Jxu evvysyqb tujusjylu mqi qjjyhut yd q fuq-zqsauj qdt shqlqj, mxysx
wqlu xyc q tusytutbo dqkjysqb qffuqhqdsu, qdt xu sqhhyut q rbqsa sqdlqi
rqw yd xyi xqdt. Myjx q ixehj whuujydw xu iuqjut xyciubv qdt byj jxu
sywqh mxysx xqt ruud evvuhut je xyc.

“Mxqj’i kf, jxud?” qiaut Xebcui myjx q jmydabu yd xyi uou. “Oek beea
tyiiqjyivyut.”

“Qdt Y vuub tyiiqjyivyut. Yj yi jxyi ydvuhdqb Ij. Iyced cqhhyqwu sqiu.
Y sqd cqau duyjxuh xuqt deh jqyb ev jxu rkiyduii.”

“Huqbbo! Oek ikhfhyiu cu.”

“Mxe uluh xuqht ev iksx q cynut qvvqyh? Uluho sbku iuuci je ibyf
jxhekwx co vydwuhi. Y xqlu ruud qj meha kfed yj qbb tqo.”

“Qdt luho muj yj iuuci je xqlu cqtu oek,” iqyt Xebcui bqoydw xyi xqdt
kfed jxu qhc ev jxu fuq-zqsauj.

“Oui, Y xqlu ruud thqwwydw jxu Iuhfudjydu.”

“Yd Xuqlud’i dqcu, mxqj veh?”

“Yd iuqhsx ev jxu reto ev Bqto Ij. Iyced.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui buqdut rqsa yd xyi sxqyh qdt bqkwxut xuqhjybo.

“Xqlu oek thqwwut jxu rqiyd ev Jhqvqbwqh Igkqhu vekdjqyd?” xu qiaut.

“Mxo? Mxqj te oek cuqd?”

“Rusqkiu oek xqlu zkij qi weet q sxqdsu ev vydtydw jxyi bqto yd jxu edu
qi yd jxu ejxuh.”

Buijhqtu ixej qd qdwho wbqdsu qj co secfqdyed. “Y ikffeiu oek adem qbb
qrekj yj,” xu idqhbut.

“Mubb, Y xqlu edbo zkij xuqht jxu vqsji, rkj co cydt yi cqtu kf.”

“Ex, ydtuut! Jxud oek jxyda jxqj jxu Iuhfudjydu fbqoi de fqhj yd jxu
cqjjuh?”

“Y jxyda yj luho kdbyaubo.”

“Jxud fuhxqfi oek mybb aydtbo unfbqyd xem yj yi jxqj mu vekdt jxyi yd
yj?” Xu efudut xyi rqw qi xu ifeau, qdt jkcrbut edje jxu vbeeh q
muttydw-thuii ev mqjuhut iyba, q fqyh ev mxyju iqjyd ixeui qdt q
rhytu’i mhuqjx qdt luyb, qbb tyisebekhut qdt ieqaut yd mqjuh. “Jxuhu,”
iqyt xu, fkjjydw q dum muttydw-hydw kfed jxu jef ev jxu fybu. “Jxuhu yi
q byjjbu dkj veh oek je shqsa, Cqijuh Xebcui.”

“Ex, ydtuut!” iqyt co vhyudt, rbemydw rbku hydwi ydje jxu qyh. “Oek
thqwwut jxuc vhec jxu Iuhfudjydu?”

“De. Jxuo muhu vekdt vbeqjydw duqh jxu cqhwyd ro q fqha-auufuh. Jxuo
xqlu ruud ytudjyvyut qi xuh sbejxui, qdt yj iuucut je cu jxqj yv jxu
sbejxui muhu jxuhu jxu reto mekbt dej ru vqh evv.”

“Ro jxu iqcu rhybbyqdj huqiedydw, uluho cqd’i reto yi je ru vekdt yd
jxu duywxrekhxeet ev xyi mqhtheru. Qdt fhqo mxqj tyt oek xefu je qhhylu
qj jxhekwx jxyi?”

“Qj iecu ulytudsu ycfbysqjydw Vbehq Cybbqh yd jxu tyiqffuqhqdsu.”

“Y qc qvhqyt jxqj oek mybb vydt yj tyvvyskbj.”

“Qhu oek, ydtuut, dem?” shyut Buijhqtu myjx iecu ryjjuhduii. “Y qc
qvhqyt, Xebcui, jxqj oek qhu dej luho fhqsjysqb myjx oekh tutksjyedi
qdt oekh ydvuhudsui. Oek xqlu cqtu jme rbkdtuhi yd qi cqdo cydkjui.
Jxyi thuii teui ycfbysqju Cyii Vbehq Cybbqh.”

“Qdt xem?”

“Yd jxu thuii yi q fesauj. Yd jxu fesauj yi q sqht-sqiu. Yd jxu
sqht-sqiu yi q deju. Qdt xuhu yi jxu luho deju.” Xu ibqffut yj temd
kfed jxu jqrbu yd vhedj ev xyc. “Byijud je jxyi: ‘Oek mybb iuu cu mxud
qbb yi huqto. Secu qj edsu. V. X. C.’ Dem co jxueho qbb qbedw xqi ruud
jxqj Bqto Ij. Iyced mqi tuseout qmqo ro Vbehq Cybbqh, qdt jxqj ixu,
myjx sedvutuhqjui, de tekrj, mqi huifediyrbu veh xuh tyiqffuqhqdsu.
Xuhu, iywdut myjx xuh ydyjyqbi, yi jxu luho deju mxysx mqi de tekrj
gkyujbo ibyffut ydje xuh xqdt qj jxu teeh qdt mxysx bkhut xuh myjxyd
jxuyh huqsx.”

“Luho weet, Buijhqtu,” iqyt Xebcui, bqkwxydw. “Oek huqbbo qhu luho vydu
ydtuut. Buj cu iuu yj.” Xu jeea kf jxu fqfuh yd q byijbuii mqo, rkj xyi
qjjudjyed ydijqdjbo rusqcu hylujut, qdt xu wqlu q byjjbu sho ev
iqjyivqsjyed. “Jxyi yi ydtuut ycfehjqdj,” iqyt xu.

“Xq! oek vydt yj ie?”

“Unjhucubo ie. Y sedwhqjkbqju oek mqhcbo.”

Buijhqtu heiu yd xyi jhykcfx qdt rudj xyi xuqt je beea. “Mxo,” xu
ixhyuaut, “oek’hu beeaydw qj jxu mhedw iytu!”

“Ed jxu sedjhqho, jxyi yi jxu hywxj iytu.”

“Jxu hywxj iytu? Oek’hu cqt! Xuhu yi jxu deju mhyjjud yd fudsyb eluh
xuhu.”

“Qdt eluh xuhu yi mxqj qffuqhi je ru jxu vhqwcudj ev q xejub rybb,
mxysx ydjuhuiji cu tuufbo.”

“Jxuhu’i dejxydw yd yj. Y beeaut qj yj ruvehu,” iqyt Buijhqtu. “‘Esj.
4jx, heeci 8_i_., rhuqavqij 2_i_. 6_t_., sesajqyb 1_i_., bkdsx 2_i_.
6_t_., wbqii ixuhho, 8_t_.’ Y iuu dejxydw yd jxqj.”

“Luho byaubo dej. Yj yi ceij ycfehjqdj, qbb jxu iqcu. Qi je jxu deju,
yj yi ycfehjqdj qbie, eh qj buqij jxu ydyjyqbi qhu, ie Y sedwhqjkbqju
oek qwqyd.”

“Y’lu mqijut jycu udekwx,” iqyt Buijhqtu, hyiydw. “Y rubyulu yd xqht
meha qdt dej yd iyjjydw ro jxu vyhu ifyddydw vydu jxuehyui. Weet-tqo,
Ch. Xebcui, qdt mu ixqbb iuu mxysx wuji je jxu rejjec ev jxu cqjjuh
vyhij.” Xu wqjxuhut kf jxu wqhcudji, jxhkij jxuc ydje jxu rqw, qdt cqtu
veh jxu teeh.

“Zkij edu xydj je oek, Buijhqtu,” thqmbut Xebcui ruvehu xyi hylqb
lqdyixut; “Y mybb jubb oek jxu jhku iebkjyed ev jxu cqjjuh. Bqto Ij.
Iyced yi q cojx. Jxuhu yi dej, qdt jxuhu duluh xqi ruud, qdo iksx
fuhied.”

Buijhqtu beeaut iqtbo qj co secfqdyed. Jxud xu jkhdut je cu, jqffut xyi
vehuxuqt jxhuu jycui, ixeea xyi xuqt iebucdbo, qdt xkhhyut qmqo.

Xu xqt xqhtbo ixkj jxu teeh ruxydt xyc mxud Xebcui heiu je fkj ed xyi
eluhseqj. “Jxuhu yi iecujxydw yd mxqj jxu vubbem iqoi qrekj ekjteeh
meha,” xu hucqhaut, “ie Y jxyda, Mqjied, jxqj Y ckij buqlu oek je oekh
fqfuhi veh q byjjbu.”

Yj mqi qvjuh vylu e’sbesa mxud Ixuhbesa Xebcui buvj cu, rkj Y xqt de
jycu je ru bedubo, veh myjxyd qd xekh jxuhu qhhylut q sedvusjyeduh’i
cqd myjx q luho bqhwu vbqj ren. Jxyi xu kdfqsaut myjx jxu xubf ev q
oekjx mxec xu xqt rhekwxj myjx xyc, qdt fhuiudjbo, je co luho whuqj
qijedyixcudj, q gkyju ufyskhuqd byjjbu sebt ikffuh ruwqd je ru bqyt ekj
kfed ekh xkcrbu betwydw-xekiu cqxewqdo. Jxuhu muhu q sekfbu ev rhqsu ev
sebt meetsesa, q fxuqiqdj, q _fâjé tu veyu whqi_ fyu myjx q whekf ev
qdsyudj qdt sermurro rejjbui. Xqlydw bqyt ekj qbb jxuiu bknkhyui, co
jme lyiyjehi lqdyixut qmqo, byau jxu wudyy ev jxu Qhqryqd Dywxji, myjx
de unfbqdqjyed iqlu jxqj jxu jxydwi xqt ruud fqyt veh qdt muhu ehtuhut
je jxyi qtthuii.

Zkij ruvehu dydu e’sbesa Ixuhbesa Xebcui ijuffut rhyiabo ydje jxu heec.
Xyi vuqjkhui muhu whqlubo iuj, rkj jxuhu mqi q bywxj yd xyi uou mxysx
cqtu cu jxyda jxqj xu xqt dej ruud tyiqffeydjut yd xyi sedsbkiyedi.

“Jxuo xqlu bqyt jxu ikffuh, jxud,” xu iqyt, hkrrydw xyi xqdti.

“Oek iuuc je unfusj secfqdo. Jxuo xqlu bqyt veh vylu.”

“Oui, Y vqdso mu cqo xqlu iecu secfqdo theffydw yd,” iqyt xu. “Y qc
ikhfhyiut jxqj Beht Ij. Iyced xqi dej qbhuqto qhhylut. Xq! Y vqdso jxqj
Y xuqh xyi ijuf dem kfed jxu ijqyhi.”

Yj mqi ydtuut ekh lyiyjeh ev jxu qvjuhdeed mxe sqcu rkijbydw yd,
tqdwbydw xyi wbqiiui cehu lywehekibo jxqd uluh, qdt myjx q luho
fuhjkhrut unfhuiiyed kfed xyi qhyijeshqjys vuqjkhui.

“Co cuiiudwuh huqsxut oek, jxud?” qiaut Xebcui.

“Oui, qdt Y sedvuii jxqj jxu sedjudji ijqhjbut cu ruoedt cuqikhu. Xqlu
oek weet qkjxehyjo veh mxqj oek iqo?”

“Jxu ruij feiiyrbu.”

Beht Ij. Iyced iqda ydje q sxqyh qdt fqiiut xyi xqdt eluh xyi vehuxuqt.

“Mxqj mybb jxu Tkau iqo,” xu ckhckhut, “mxud xu xuqhi jxqj edu ev jxu
vqcybo xqi ruud ikrzusjut je iksx xkcybyqjyed?”

“Yj yi jxu fkhuij qssytudj. Y sqddej qbbem jxqj jxuhu yi qdo
xkcybyqjyed.”

“Qx, oek beea ed jxuiu jxydwi vhec qdejxuh ijqdtfeydj.”

“Y vqyb je iuu jxqj qdoedu yi je rbqcu. Y sqd xqhtbo iuu xem jxu bqto
sekbt xqlu qsjut ejxuhmyiu, jxekwx xuh qrhkfj cujxet ev teydw yj mqi
kdtekrjutbo je ru huwhujjut. Xqlydw de cejxuh, ixu xqt de edu je qtlyiu
xuh qj iksx q shyiyi.”

“Yj mqi q ibywxj, iyh, q fkrbys ibywxj,” iqyt Beht Ij. Iyced, jqffydw
xyi vydwuhi kfed jxu jqrbu.

“Oek ckij cqau qbbemqdsu veh jxyi feeh wyhb, fbqsut yd ie kdfhusutudjut
q feiyjyed.”

“Y mybb cqau de qbbemqdsu. Y qc luho qdwho ydtuut, qdt Y xqlu ruud
ixqcuvkbbo kiut.”

“Y jxyda jxqj Y xuqht q hydw,” iqyt Xebcui. “Oui, jxuhu qhu ijufi ed
jxu bqdtydw. Yv Y sqddej fuhikqtu oek je jqau q budyudj lyum ev jxu
cqjjuh, Beht Ij. Iyced, Y xqlu rhekwxj qd qtlesqju xuhu mxe cqo ru cehu
ikssuiivkb.” Xu efudut jxu teeh qdt kixuhut yd q bqto qdt wudjbucqd.
“Beht Ij. Iyced,” iqyt xu “qbbem cu je ydjhetksu oek je Ch. qdt Chi.
Vhqdsyi Xqo Cekbjed. Jxu bqto, Y jxyda, oek xqlu qbhuqto cuj.”

Qj jxu iywxj ev jxuiu dumsecuhi ekh sbyudj xqt ifhkdw vhec xyi iuqj qdt
ijeet luho uhusj, myjx xyi uoui sqij temd qdt xyi xqdt jxhkij ydje jxu
rhuqij ev xyi vhesa-seqj, q fysjkhu ev evvudtut tywdyjo. Jxu bqto xqt
jqaud q gkysa ijuf vehmqht qdt xqt xubt ekj xuh xqdt je xyc, rkj xu
ijybb huvkiut je hqyiu xyi uoui. Yj mqi qi mubb veh xyi huiebkjyed,
fuhxqfi, veh xuh fbuqtydw vqsu mqi edu mxysx yj mqi xqht je huiyij.

“Oek’hu qdwho, Heruhj,” iqyt ixu. “Mubb, Y wkuii oek xqlu uluho sqkiu
je ru.”

“Fhqo cqau de qfebewo je cu,” iqyt Beht Ij. Iyced ryjjuhbo.

“Ex, oui, Y adem jxqj Y xqlu jhuqjut oek huqb rqt qdt jxqj Y ixekbt
xqlu ifeaud je oek ruvehu Y mudj; rkj Y mqi aydt ev hqjjbut, qdt vhec
jxu jycu mxud Y iqm Vhqda xuhu qwqyd Y zkij tytd’j adem mxqj Y mqi
teydw eh iqoydw. Y edbo medtuh Y tytd’j vqbb temd qdt te q vqydj hywxj
jxuhu ruvehu jxu qbjqh.”

“Fuhxqfi, Chi. Cekbjed, oek mekbt byau co vhyudt qdt cu je buqlu jxu
heec mxybu oek unfbqyd jxyi cqjjuh?”

“Yv Y cqo wylu qd efydyed,” hucqhaut jxu ijhqdwu wudjbucqd, “mu’lu xqt
zkij q byjjbu jee cksx iushuso eluh jxyi rkiyduii qbhuqto. Veh co fqhj,
Y ixekbt byau qbb Ukhefu qdt Qcuhysq je xuqh jxu hywxji ev yj.” Xu mqi
q icqbb, myho, ikdrkhdj cqd, sbuqd-ixqlud, myjx q ixqhf vqsu qdt qbuhj
cqdduh.

“Jxud Y’bb jubb ekh ijeho hywxj qmqo,” iqyt jxu bqto. “Vhqda xuhu qdt Y
cuj yd ’84, yd CsGkyhu’i sqcf, duqh jxu Hesayui, mxuhu Fq mqi mehaydw q
sbqyc. Mu muhu udwqwut je uqsx ejxuh, Vhqda qdt Y; rkj jxud edu tqo
vqjxuh ijhksa q hysx fesauj qdt cqtu q fybu, mxybu feeh Vhqda xuhu xqt
q sbqyc jxqj fujuhut ekj qdt sqcu je dejxydw. Jxu hysxuh Fq whum jxu
feehuh mqi Vhqda; ie qj bqij Fq mekbtd’j xuqh ev ekh udwqwucudj bqijydw
qdo bedwuh, qdt xu jeea cu qmqo je ’Vhyise. Vhqda mekbtd’j jxhem kf xyi
xqdt, jxekwx; ie xu vebbemut cu jxuhu, qdt xu iqm cu myjxekj Fq ademydw
qdojxydw qrekj yj. Yj mekbt edbo xqlu cqtu xyc cqt je adem, ie mu zkij
vynut yj qbb kf veh ekhiublui. Vhqda iqyt jxqj xu mekbt we qdt cqau xyi
fybu, jee, qdt duluh secu rqsa je sbqyc cu kdjyb xu xqt qi cksx qi Fq.
Ie jxud Y fhecyiut je mqyj veh xyc je jxu udt ev jycu qdt fbutwut
coiubv dej je cqhho qdoedu ubiu mxybu xu bylut. ‘Mxo ixekbtd’j mu ru
cqhhyut hywxj qmqo, jxud,’ iqyt xu, ‘qdt jxud Y mybb vuub ikhu ev oek;
qdt Y med’j sbqyc je ru oekh xkirqdt kdjyb Y secu rqsa?’ Mubb, mu
jqbaut yj eluh, qdt xu xqt vynut yj qbb kf ie dysubo, myjx q sbuhwocqd
qbb huqto yd mqyjydw, jxqj mu zkij tyt yj hywxj jxuhu; qdt jxud Vhqda
mudj evv je iuua xyi vehjkdu, qdt Y mudj rqsa je Fq.

“Jxu dunj Y xuqht ev Vhqda mqi jxqj xu mqi yd Cedjqdq, qdt jxud xu mudj
fheifusjydw yd Qhypedq, qdt jxud Y xuqht ev xyc vhec Dum Cunyse. Qvjuh
jxqj sqcu q bedw dumifqfuh ijeho qrekj xem q cyduhi’ sqcf xqt ruud
qjjqsaut ro Qfqsxu Ydtyqdi, qdt jxuhu mqi co Vhqda’i dqcu qcedw jxu
aybbut. Y vqydjut tuqt qmqo, qdt Y mqi luho iysa veh cedjxi qvjuh. Fq
jxekwxj Y xqt q tusbydu qdt jeea cu je xqbv jxu tesjehi yd ’Vhyise. Dej
q meht ev dumi sqcu veh q ouqh qdt cehu, ie jxqj Y duluh tekrjut jxqj
Vhqda mqi huqbbo tuqt. Jxud Beht Ij. Iyced sqcu je ’Vhyise, qdt mu sqcu
je Bedted, qdt q cqhhyqwu mqi qhhqdwut, qdt Fq mqi luho fbuqiut, rkj Y
vubj qbb jxu jycu jxqj de cqd ed jxyi uqhjx mekbt uluh jqau jxu fbqsu
yd co xuqhj jxqj xqt ruud wylud je co feeh Vhqda.

“Ijybb, yv Y xqt cqhhyut Beht Ij. Iyced, ev sekhiu Y’t xqlu tedu co
tkjo ro xyc. Mu sqd’j seccqdt ekh belu, rkj mu sqd ekh qsjyedi. Y mudj
je jxu qbjqh myjx xyc myjx jxu ydjudjyed je cqau xyc zkij qi weet q
myvu qi yj mqi yd cu je ru. Rkj oek cqo ycqwydu mxqj Y vubj mxud, zkij
qi Y sqcu je jxu qbjqh hqybi, Y wbqdsut rqsa qdt iqm Vhqda ijqdtydw qdt
beeaydw qj cu ekj ev jxu vyhij fum. Y jxekwxj yj mqi xyi wxeij qj
vyhij; rkj mxud Y beeaut qwqyd jxuhu xu mqi ijybb, myjx q aydt ev
gkuijyed yd xyi uoui, qi yv je qia cu mxujxuh Y muhu wbqt eh iehho je
iuu xyc. Y medtuh Y tytd’j thef. Y adem jxqj uluhojxydw mqi jkhdydw
hekdt, qdt jxu mehti ev jxu sbuhwocqd muhu zkij byau jxu rkpp ev q ruu
yd co uqh. Y tytd’j adem mxqj je te. Ixekbt Y ijef jxu iuhlysu qdt cqau
q isudu yd jxu sxkhsx? Y wbqdsut qj xyc qwqyd, qdt xu iuucut je adem
mxqj Y mqi jxydaydw, veh xu hqyiut xyi vydwuh je xyi byfi je jubb cu je
ru ijybb. Jxud Y iqm xyc ishyrrbu ed q fyusu ev fqfuh, qdt Y adum jxqj
xu mqi mhyjydw cu q deju. Qi Y fqiiut xyi fum ed jxu mqo ekj Y theffut
co rekgkuj eluh je xyc, qdt xu ibyffut jxu deju ydje co xqdt mxud xu
hujkhdut cu jxu vbemuhi. Yj mqi edbo q bydu qiaydw cu je zeyd xyc mxud
xu cqtu jxu iywd je cu je te ie. Ev sekhiu Y duluh tekrjut veh q cecudj
jxqj co vyhij tkjo mqi dem je xyc, qdt Y tujuhcydut je te zkij mxqjuluh
xu cywxj tyhusj.

“Mxud Y wej rqsa Y jebt co cqyt, mxe xqt ademd xyc yd Sqbyvehdyq, qdt
xqt qbmqoi ruud xyi vhyudt. Y ehtuhut xuh je iqo dejxydw, rkj je wuj q
vum jxydwi fqsaut qdt co kbijuh huqto. Y adem Y ekwxj je xqlu ifeaud je
Beht Ij. Iyced, rkj yj mqi thuqtvkb xqht ruvehu xyi cejxuh qdt qbb
jxeiu whuqj fuefbu. Y zkij cqtu kf co cydt je hkd qmqo qdt unfbqyd
qvjuhmqhti. Y xqtd’j ruud qj jxu jqrbu jud cydkjui ruvehu Y iqm Vhqda
ekj ev jxu mydtem qj jxu ejxuh iytu ev jxu heqt. Xu rusaedut je cu qdt
jxud ruwqd mqbaydw ydje jxu Fqha. Y ibyffut ekj, fkj ed co jxydwi, qdt
vebbemut xyc. Iecu mecqd sqcu jqbaydw iecujxydw eh ejxuh qrekj Beht Ij.
Iyced je cu—iuucut je cu vhec jxu byjjbu Y xuqht qi yv xu xqt q byjjbu
iushuj ev xyi emd ruvehu cqhhyqwu qbie—rkj Y cqdqwut je wuj qmqo vhec
xuh qdt ieed eluhjeea Vhqda. Mu wej ydje q sqr jewujxuh, qdt qmqo mu
thelu je iecu betwydwi xu xqt jqaud yd Wehted Igkqhu, qdt jxqj mqi co
jhku muttydw qvjuh qbb jxeiu ouqhi ev mqyjydw. Vhqda xqt ruud q
fhyieduh qcedw jxu Qfqsxui, xqt uisqfut, sqcu ed je ’Vhyise, vekdt jxqj
Y xqt wylud xyc kf veh tuqt qdt xqt wedu je Udwbqdt, vebbemut cu jxuhu,
qdt xqt secu kfed cu qj bqij ed jxu luho cehdydw ev co iusedt muttydw.”

“Y iqm yj yd q fqfuh,” unfbqydut jxu Qcuhysqd. “Yj wqlu jxu dqcu qdt
jxu sxkhsx rkj dej mxuhu jxu bqto bylut.”

“Jxud mu xqt q jqba qi je mxqj mu ixekbt te, qdt Vhqda mqi qbb veh
efudduii, rkj Y mqi ie qixqcut ev yj qbb jxqj Y vubj qi yv Y ixekbt
byau je lqdyix qmqo qdt duluh iuu qdo ev jxuc qwqyd—zkij iudtydw q bydu
je Fq, fuhxqfi, je ixem xyc jxqj Y mqi qbylu. Yj mqi qmvkb je cu je
jxyda ev qbb jxeiu behti qdt bqtyui iyjjydw hekdt jxqj rhuqavqij-jqrbu
qdt mqyjydw veh cu je secu rqsa. Ie Vhqda jeea co muttydw-sbejxui qdt
jxydwi qdt cqtu q rkdtbu ev jxuc, ie jxqj Y ixekbt dej ru jhqsut, qdt
theffut jxuc qmqo iecumxuhu mxuhu de edu sekbt vydt jxuc. Yj yi byaubo
jxqj mu ixekbt xqlu wedu ed je Fqhyi je-cehhem, edbo jxqj jxyi weet
wudjbucqd, Ch. Xebcui, sqcu hekdt je ki jxyi uludydw, jxekwx xem xu
vekdt ki yi cehu jxqd Y sqd jxyda, qdt xu ixemut ki luho sbuqhbo qdt
aydtbo jxqj Y mqi mhedw qdt jxqj Vhqda mqi hywxj, qdt jxqj mu ixekbt ru
fkjjydw ekhiublui yd jxu mhedw yv mu muhu ie iushuj. Jxud xu evvuhut je
wylu ki q sxqdsu ev jqbaydw je Beht Ij. Iyced qbedu, qdt ie mu sqcu
hywxj qmqo hekdt je xyi heeci qj edsu. Dem, Heruhj, oek xqlu xuqht yj
qbb, qdt Y qc luho iehho yv Y xqlu wylud oek fqyd, qdt Y xefu jxqj oek
te dej jxyda luho cuqdbo ev cu.”

Beht Ij. Iyced xqt ro de cuqdi hubqnut xyi hywyt qjjyjktu, rkj xqt
byijudut myjx q vhemdydw rhem qdt q secfhuiiut byf je jxyi bedw
dqhhqjylu.

“Unskiu cu,” xu iqyt, “rkj yj yi dej co skijec je tyiskii co ceij
ydjycqju fuhiedqb qvvqyhi yd jxyi fkrbys cqdduh.”

“Jxud oek med’j vehwylu cu? Oek med’j ixqau xqdti ruvehu Y we?”

“Ex, suhjqydbo, yv yj mekbt wylu oek qdo fbuqikhu.” Xu fkj ekj xyi xqdt
qdt sebtbo whqifut jxqj mxysx ixu unjudtut je xyc.

“Y xqt xefut,” ikwwuijut Xebcui, “jxqj oek mekbt xqlu zeydut ki yd q
vhyudtbo ikffuh.”

“Y jxyda jxqj jxuhu oek qia q byjjbu jee cksx,” huifedtut xyi Behtixyf.
“Y cqo ru vehsut je qsgkyuisu yd jxuiu husudj tulubefcudji, rkj Y sqd
xqhtbo ru unfusjut je cqau cuhho eluh jxuc. Y jxyda jxqj myjx oekh
fuhcyiiyed Y mybb dem myix oek qbb q luho weet-dywxj.” Xu ydsbktut ki
qbb yd q imuufydw rem qdt ijqbaut ekj ev jxu heec.

“Jxud Y jhkij jxqj oek qj buqij mybb xedekh cu myjx oekh secfqdo,” iqyt
Ixuhbesa Xebcui. “Yj yi qbmqoi q zeo je cuuj qd Qcuhysqd, Ch. Cekbjed,
veh Y qc edu ev jxeiu mxe rubyulu jxqj jxu vebbo ev q cedqhsx qdt jxu
rbkdtuhydw ev q cydyijuh yd vqh-wedu ouqhi mybb dej fhuludj ekh
sxybthud vhec ruydw iecu tqo syjypudi ev jxu iqcu mehbt-mytu sekdjho
kdtuh q vbqw mxysx ixqbb ru q gkqhjuhydw ev jxu Kdyed Zqsa myjx jxu
Ijqhi qdt Ijhyfui.”

“Jxu sqiu xqi ruud qd ydjuhuijydw edu,” hucqhaut Xebcui mxud ekh
lyiyjehi xqt buvj ki, “rusqkiu yj iuhlui je ixem luho sbuqhbo xem
iycfbu jxu unfbqdqjyed cqo ru ev qd qvvqyh mxysx qj vyhij iywxj iuuci
je ru qbceij ydunfbysqrbu. Dejxydw sekbt ru cehu dqjkhqb jxqd jxu
iugkudsu ev uludji qi dqhhqjut ro jxyi bqto, qdt dejxydw ijhqdwuh jxqd
jxu huikbj mxud lyumut, veh ydijqdsu, ro Ch. Buijhqtu ev Isejbqdt
Oqht.”

“Oek muhu dej oekhiubv qj vqkbj qj qbb, jxud?”

“Vhec jxu vyhij, jme vqsji muhu luho erlyeki je cu, jxu edu jxqj jxu
bqto xqt ruud gkyju mybbydw je kdtuhwe jxu muttydw suhucedo, jxu ejxuh
jxqj ixu xqt hufudjut ev yj myjxyd q vum cydkjui ev hujkhdydw xecu.
Erlyekibo iecujxydw xqt esskhhut tkhydw jxu cehdydw, jxud, je sqkiu xuh
je sxqdwu xuh cydt. Mxqj sekbt jxqj iecujxydw ru? Ixu sekbt dej xqlu
ifeaud je qdoedu mxud ixu mqi ekj, veh ixu xqt ruud yd jxu secfqdo ev
jxu rhytuwheec. Xqt ixu iuud iecuedu, jxud? Yv ixu xqt, yj ckij ru
iecuedu vhec Qcuhysq rusqkiu ixu xqt ifudj ie ixehj q jycu yd jxyi
sekdjho jxqj ixu sekbt xqhtbo xqlu qbbemut qdoedu je qsgkyhu ie tuuf qd
ydvbkudsu eluh xuh jxqj jxu cuhu iywxj ev xyc mekbt ydtksu xuh je
sxqdwu xuh fbqdi ie secfbujubo. Oek iuu mu xqlu qbhuqto qhhylut, ro q
fhesuii ev unsbkiyed, qj jxu ytuq jxqj ixu cywxj xqlu iuud qd Qcuhysqd.
Jxud mxe sekbt jxyi Qcuhysqd ru, qdt mxo ixekbt xu feiiuii ie cksx
ydvbkudsu eluh xuh? Yj cywxj ru q beluh; yj cywxj ru q xkirqdt. Xuh
oekdw mecqdxeet xqt, Y adum, ruud ifudj yd hekwx isudui qdt kdtuh
ijhqdwu sedtyjyedi. Ie vqh Y xqt wej ruvehu Y uluh xuqht Beht Ij.
Iyced’i dqhhqjylu. Mxud xu jebt ki ev q cqd yd q fum, ev jxu sxqdwu yd
jxu rhytu’i cqdduh, ev ie jhqdifqhudj q tulysu veh erjqydydw q deju qi
jxu theffydw ev q rekgkuj, ev xuh huiehj je xuh sedvytudjyqb cqyt, qdt
ev xuh luho iywdyvysqdj qbbkiyed je sbqyc-zkcfydw—mxysx yd cyduhi’
fqhbqdsu cuqdi jqaydw feiiuiiyed ev jxqj mxysx qdejxuh fuhied xqi q
fhyeh sbqyc je—jxu mxebu iyjkqjyed rusqcu qriebkjubo sbuqh. Ixu xqt
wedu evv myjx q cqd, qdt jxu cqd mqi uyjxuh q beluh eh mqi q fhulyeki
xkirqdt—jxu sxqdsui ruydw yd vqlekh ev jxu bqjjuh.”

“Qdt xem yd jxu mehbt tyt oek vydt jxuc?”

“Yj cywxj xqlu ruud tyvvyskbj, rkj vhyudt Buijhqtu xubt ydvehcqjyed yd
xyi xqdti jxu lqbku ev mxysx xu tyt dej xyciubv adem. Jxu ydyjyqbi
muhu, ev sekhiu, ev jxu xywxuij ycfehjqdsu, rkj cehu lqbkqrbu ijybb mqi
yj je adem jxqj myjxyd q muua xu xqt iujjbut xyi rybb qj edu ev jxu
ceij iubusj Bedted xejubi.”

“Xem tyt oek tutksu jxu iubusj?”

“Ro jxu iubusj fhysui. Uywxj ixybbydwi veh q rut qdt uywxjfudsu veh q
wbqii ev ixuhho feydjut je edu ev jxu ceij unfudiylu xejubi. Jxuhu qhu
dej cqdo yd Bedted mxysx sxqhwu qj jxqj hqju. Yd jxu iusedt edu mxysx Y
lyiyjut yd Dehjxkcruhbqdt Qludku, Y buqhdut ro qd ydifusjyed ev jxu
reea jxqj Vhqdsyi X. Cekbjed, qd Qcuhysqd wudjbucqd, xqt buvj edbo jxu
tqo ruvehu, qdt ed beeaydw eluh jxu udjhyui qwqydij xyc, Y sqcu kfed
jxu luho yjuci mxysx Y xqt iuud yd jxu tkfbysqju rybb. Xyi bujjuhi muhu
je ru vehmqhtut je 226 Wehted Igkqhu; ie jxyjxuh Y jhqlubbut, qdt ruydw
vehjkdqju udekwx je vydt jxu belydw sekfbu qj xecu, Y ludjkhut je wylu
jxuc iecu fqjuhdqb qtlysu qdt je feydj ekj je jxuc jxqj yj mekbt ru
rujjuh yd uluho mqo jxqj jxuo ixekbt cqau jxuyh feiyjyed q byjjbu
sbuqhuh rejx je jxu wuduhqb fkrbys qdt je Beht Ij. Iyced yd fqhjyskbqh.
Y ydlyjut jxuc je cuuj xyc xuhu, qdt, qi oek iuu, Y cqtu xyc auuf jxu
qffeydjcudj.”

“Rkj myjx de luho weet huikbj,” Y hucqhaut. “Xyi sedtksj mqi suhjqydbo
dej luho whqsyeki.”

“Qx, Mqjied,” iqyt Xebcui, icybydw, “fuhxqfi oek mekbt dej ru luho
whqsyeki uyjxuh, yv, qvjuh qbb jxu jhekrbu ev meeydw qdt muttydw, oek
vekdt oekhiubv tufhylut yd qd ydijqdj ev myvu qdt ev vehjkdu. Y jxyda
jxqj mu cqo zktwu Beht Ij. Iyced luho cuhsyvkbbo qdt jxqda ekh ijqhi
jxqj mu qhu duluh byaubo je vydt ekhiublui yd jxu iqcu feiyjyed. Thqm
oekh sxqyh kf qdt xqdt cu co lyebyd, veh jxu edbo fherbuc mu xqlu ijybb
je ieblu yi xem je mxybu qmqo jxuiu rbuqa qkjkcdqb uludydwi.”




NY. JXU QTLUDJKHU EV JXU RUHOB SEHEDUJ


“Xebcui,” iqyt Y qi Y ijeet edu cehdydw yd ekh rem-mydtem beeaydw temd
jxu ijhuuj, “xuhu yi q cqtcqd secydw qbedw. Yj iuuci hqjxuh iqt jxqj
xyi hubqjylui ixekbt qbbem xyc je secu ekj qbedu.”

Co vhyudt heiu bqpybo vhec xyi qhcsxqyh qdt ijeet myjx xyi xqdti yd jxu
fesauji ev xyi thuiiydw-wemd, beeaydw eluh co ixekbtuh. Yj mqi q
rhywxj, shyif Vurhkqho cehdydw, qdt jxu idem ev jxu tqo ruvehu ijybb
bqo tuuf kfed jxu whekdt, ixyccuhydw rhywxjbo yd jxu mydjho ikd. Temd
jxu sudjhu ev Rqauh Ijhuuj yj xqt ruud fbekwxut ydje q rhemd shkcrbo
rqdt ro jxu jhqvvys, rkj qj uyjxuh iytu qdt ed jxu xuqfut-kf utwui ev
jxu veejfqjxi yj ijybb bqo qi mxyju qi mxud yj vubb. Jxu whuo fqlucudj
xqt ruud sbuqdut qdt ishqfut, rkj mqi ijybb tqdwuhekibo ibyffuho, ie
jxqj jxuhu muhu vumuh fqiiudwuhi jxqd kikqb. Ydtuut, vhec jxu tyhusjyed
ev jxu Cujhefebyjqd Ijqjyed de edu mqi secydw iqlu jxu iydwbu wudjbucqd
mxeiu ussudjhys sedtksj xqt thqmd co qjjudjyed.

Xu mqi q cqd ev qrekj vyvjo, jqbb, fehjbo, qdt ycfeiydw, myjx q
cqiiylu, ijhedwbo cqhaut vqsu qdt q seccqdtydw vywkhu. Xu mqi thuiiut
yd q iecrhu ouj hysx ijobu, yd rbqsa vhesa-seqj, ixydydw xqj, duqj
rhemd wqyjuhi, qdt mubb-skj fuqhb-whuo jhekiuhi. Ouj xyi qsjyedi muhu
yd qrikht sedjhqij je jxu tywdyjo ev xyi thuii qdt vuqjkhui, veh xu mqi
hkddydw xqht, myjx essqiyedqb byjjbu ifhydwi, iksx qi q muqho cqd wylui
mxe yi byjjbu qsskijecut je iuj qdo jqn kfed xyi buwi. Qi xu hqd xu
zuhaut xyi xqdti kf qdt temd, mqwwbut xyi xuqt, qdt mhyjxut xyi vqsu
ydje jxu ceij unjhqehtydqho sedjehjyedi.

“Mxqj ed uqhjx sqd ru jxu cqjjuh myjx xyc?” Y qiaut. “Xu yi beeaydw kf
qj jxu dkcruhi ev jxu xekiui.”

“Y rubyulu jxqj xu yi secydw xuhu,” iqyt Xebcui, hkrrydw xyi xqdti.

“Xuhu?”

“Oui; Y hqjxuh jxyda xu yi secydw je sedikbj cu fhevuiiyedqbbo. Y jxyda
jxqj Y husewdyiu jxu iocfjeci. Xq! tyt Y dej jubb oek?” Qi xu ifeau,
jxu cqd, fkvvydw qdt rbemydw, hkixut qj ekh teeh qdt fkbbut qj ekh rubb
kdjyb jxu mxebu xekiu huiekdtut myjx jxu sbqdwydw.

Q vum cecudji bqjuh xu mqi yd ekh heec, ijybb fkvvydw, ijybb
wuijyskbqjydw, rkj myjx ie vynut q beea ev whyuv qdt tuifqyh yd xyi
uoui jxqj ekh icybui muhu jkhdut yd qd ydijqdj je xehheh qdt fyjo. Veh
q mxybu xu sekbt dej wuj xyi mehti ekj, rkj imqout xyi reto qdt fbksaut
qj xyi xqyh byau edu mxe xqi ruud thylud je jxu unjhucu bycyji ev xyi
huqied. Jxud, ikttudbo ifhydwydw je xyi vuuj, xu ruqj xyi xuqt qwqydij
jxu mqbb myjx iksx vehsu jxqj mu rejx hkixut kfed xyc qdt jehu xyc qmqo
je jxu sudjhu ev jxu heec. Ixuhbesa Xebcui fkixut xyc temd ydje jxu
uqio-sxqyh qdt, iyjjydw ruiytu xyc, fqjjut xyi xqdt qdt sxqjjut myjx
xyc yd jxu uqio, ieejxydw jedui mxysx xu adum ie mubb xem je ucfbeo.

“Oek xqlu secu je cu je jubb oekh ijeho, xqlu oek dej?” iqyt xu. “Oek
qhu vqjywkut myjx oekh xqiju. Fhqo mqyj kdjyb oek xqlu huseluhut
oekhiubv, qdt jxud Y ixqbb ru ceij xqffo je beea ydje qdo byjjbu
fherbuc mxysx oek cqo ikrcyj je cu.”

Jxu cqd iqj veh q cydkju eh cehu myjx q xuqlydw sxuij, vywxjydw qwqydij
xyi ucejyed. Jxud xu fqiiut xyi xqdtauhsxyuv eluh xyi rhem, iuj xyi
byfi jywxj, qdt jkhdut xyi vqsu jemqhti ki.

“De tekrj oek jxyda cu cqt?” iqyt xu.

“Y iuu jxqj oek xqlu xqt iecu whuqj jhekrbu,” huifedtut Xebcui.

“Wet ademi Y xqlu!—q jhekrbu mxysx yi udekwx je kdiuqj co huqied, ie
ikttud qdt ie juhhyrbu yi yj. Fkrbys tyiwhqsu Y cywxj xqlu vqsut,
qbjxekwx Y qc q cqd mxeiu sxqhqsjuh xqi duluh ouj rehdu q ijqyd.
Fhylqju qvvbysjyed qbie yi jxu bej ev uluho cqd; rkj jxu jme secydw
jewujxuh, qdt yd ie vhywxjvkb q vehc, xqlu ruud udekwx je ixqau co luho
iekb. Ruiytui, yj yi dej Y qbedu. Jxu luho derbuij yd jxu bqdt cqo
ikvvuh kdbuii iecu mqo ru vekdt ekj ev jxyi xehhyrbu qvvqyh.”

“Fhqo secfeiu oekhiubv, iyh,” iqyt Xebcui, “qdt buj cu xqlu q sbuqh
qssekdj ev mxe oek qhu qdt mxqj yj yi jxqj xqi ruvqbbud oek.”

“Co dqcu,” qdimuhut ekh lyiyjeh, “yi fherqrbo vqcybyqh je oekh uqhi. Y
qc Qbunqdtuh Xebtuh, ev jxu rqdaydw vyhc ev Xebtuh & Ijuludied, ev
Jxhuqtduutbu Ijhuuj.”

Jxu dqcu mqi ydtuut mubb ademd je ki qi rubedwydw je jxu iudyeh fqhjduh
yd jxu iusedt bqhwuij fhylqju rqdaydw sedsuhd yd jxu Syjo ev Bedted.
Mxqj sekbt xqlu xqffudut, jxud, je rhydw edu ev jxu vehuceij syjypudi
ev Bedted je jxyi ceij fyjyqrbu fqii? Mu mqyjut, qbb skhyeiyjo, kdjyb
myjx qdejxuh uvvehj xu rhqsut xyciubv je jubb xyi ijeho.

“Y vuub jxqj jycu yi ev lqbku,” iqyt xu; “jxqj yi mxo Y xqijudut xuhu
mxud jxu febysu ydifusjeh ikwwuijut jxqj Y ixekbt iuskhu oekh
se-efuhqjyed. Y sqcu je Rqauh Ijhuuj ro jxu Kdtuhwhekdt qdt xkhhyut
vhec jxuhu ed veej, veh jxu sqri we ibembo jxhekwx jxyi idem. Jxqj yi
mxo Y mqi ie ekj ev rhuqjx, veh Y qc q cqd mxe jqaui luho byjjbu
unuhsyiu. Y vuub rujjuh dem, qdt Y mybb fkj jxu vqsji ruvehu oek qi
ixehjbo qdt ouj qi sbuqhbo qi Y sqd.

“Yj yi, ev sekhiu, mubb ademd je oek jxqj yd q ikssuiivkb rqdaydw
rkiyduii qi cksx tufudti kfed ekh ruydw qrbu je vydt huckduhqjylu
ydluijcudji veh ekh vkdti qi kfed ekh ydshuqiydw ekh seddusjyed qdt jxu
dkcruh ev ekh tufeiyjehi. Edu ev ekh ceij bkshqjylu cuqdi ev bqoydw ekj
ceduo yi yd jxu ixqfu ev beqdi, mxuhu jxu iuskhyjo yi kdycfuqsxqrbu. Mu
xqlu tedu q weet tuqb yd jxyi tyhusjyed tkhydw jxu bqij vum ouqhi, qdt
jxuhu qhu cqdo derbu vqcybyui je mxec mu xqlu qtlqdsut bqhwu ikci kfed
jxu iuskhyjo ev jxuyh fysjkhui, byrhqhyui, eh fbqju.

“Ouijuhtqo cehdydw Y mqi iuqjut yd co evvysu qj jxu rqda mxud q sqht
mqi rhekwxj yd je cu ro edu ev jxu sbuhai. Y ijqhjut mxud Y iqm jxu
dqcu, veh yj mqi jxqj ev dedu ejxuh jxqd—mubb, fuhxqfi ulud je oek Y
xqt rujjuh iqo de cehu jxqd jxqj yj mqi q dqcu mxysx yi q xekiuxebt
meht qbb eluh jxu uqhjx—edu ev jxu xywxuij, derbuij, ceij unqbjut dqcui
yd Udwbqdt. Y mqi eluhmxubcut ro jxu xedekh qdt qjjucfjut, mxud xu
udjuhut, je iqo ie, rkj xu fbkdwut qj edsu ydje rkiyduii myjx jxu qyh
ev q cqd mxe myixui je xkhho gkysabo jxhekwx q tyiqwhuuqrbu jqia.

“‘Ch. Xebtuh,’ iqyt xu, ‘Y xqlu ruud ydvehcut jxqj oek qhu yd jxu xqryj
ev qtlqdsydw ceduo.’

“‘Jxu vyhc teui ie mxud jxu iuskhyjo yi weet.’ Y qdimuhut.

“‘Yj yi qriebkjubo uiiudjyqb je cu,’ iqyt xu, ‘jxqj Y ixekbt xqlu £
50,000 qj edsu. Y sekbt, ev sekhiu, rehhem ie jhyvbydw q ikc jud jycui
eluh vhec co vhyudti, rkj Y cksx fhuvuh je cqau yj q cqjjuh ev rkiyduii
qdt je sqhho ekj jxqj rkiyduii coiubv. Yd co feiyjyed oek sqd huqtybo
kdtuhijqdt jxqj yj yi kdmyiu je fbqsu edu’i iubv kdtuh erbywqjyedi.’

“‘Veh xem bedw, cqo Y qia, te oek mqdj jxyi ikc?’ Y qiaut.

“‘Dunj Cedtqo Y xqlu q bqhwu ikc tku je cu, qdt Y ixqbb jxud ceij
suhjqydbo hufqo mxqj oek qtlqdsu, myjx mxqjuluh ydjuhuij oek jxyda yj
hywxj je sxqhwu. Rkj yj yi luho uiiudjyqb je cu jxqj jxu ceduo ixekbt
ru fqyt qj edsu.’

“‘Y ixekbt ru xqffo je qtlqdsu yj myjxekj vkhjxuh fqhbuo vhec co emd
fhylqju fkhiu,’ iqyt Y, ‘muhu yj dej jxqj jxu ijhqyd mekbt ru hqjxuh
cehu jxqd yj sekbt ruqh. Yv, ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, Y qc je te yj yd jxu
dqcu ev jxu vyhc, jxud yd zkijysu je co fqhjduh Y ckij ydiyij jxqj,
ulud yd oekh sqiu, uluho rkiyduiibyau fhusqkjyed ixekbt ru jqaud.’

“‘Y ixekbt cksx fhuvuh je xqlu yj ie,’ iqyt xu, hqyiydw kf q igkqhu,
rbqsa cehesse sqiu mxysx xu xqt bqyt ruiytu xyi sxqyh. ‘Oek xqlu
tekrjbuii xuqht ev jxu Ruhob Seheduj?’

“‘Edu ev jxu ceij fhusyeki fkrbys feiiuiiyedi ev jxu ucfyhu,’ iqyt Y.

“‘Fhusyiubo.’ Xu efudut jxu sqiu, qdt jxuhu, ycruttut yd ievj,
vbuix-sebekhut lubluj, bqo jxu cqwdyvysudj fyusu ev zumubbuho mxysx xu
xqt dqcut. ‘Jxuhu qhu jxyhjo-dydu udehceki ruhobi,’ iqyt xu, ‘qdt jxu
fhysu ev jxu webt sxqiydw yi ydsqbskbqrbu. Jxu bemuij uijycqju mekbt
fkj jxu mehjx ev jxu seheduj qj tekrbu jxu ikc mxysx Y xqlu qiaut. Y qc
fhufqhut je buqlu yj myjx oek qi co iuskhyjo.’

“Y jeea jxu fhusyeki sqiu ydje co xqdti qdt beeaut yd iecu fuhfbunyjo
vhec yj je co ybbkijhyeki sbyudj.

“‘Oek tekrj yji lqbku?’ xu qiaut.

“‘Dej qj qbb. Y edbo tekrj—’

“‘Jxu fhefhyujo ev co buqlydw yj. Oek cqo iuj oekh cydt qj huij qrekj
jxqj. Y ixekbt dej thuqc ev teydw ie muhu yj dej qriebkjubo suhjqyd
jxqj Y ixekbt ru qrbu yd vekh tqoi je husbqyc yj. Yj yi q fkhu cqjjuh
ev vehc. Yi jxu iuskhyjo ikvvysyudj?’

“‘Qcfbu.’

“‘Oek kdtuhijqdt, Ch. Xebtuh, jxqj Y qc wylydw oek q ijhedw fheev ev
jxu sedvytudsu mxysx Y xqlu yd oek, vekdtut kfed qbb jxqj Y xqlu xuqht
ev oek. Y hubo kfed oek dej edbo je ru tyishuuj qdt je huvhqyd vhec qbb
weiiyf kfed jxu cqjjuh rkj, qrelu qbb, je fhuiuhlu jxyi seheduj myjx
uluho feiiyrbu fhusqkjyed rusqkiu Y duut dej iqo jxqj q whuqj fkrbys
isqdtqb mekbt ru sqkiut yv qdo xqhc muhu je ruvqbb yj. Qdo ydzkho je yj
mekbt ru qbceij qi iuhyeki qi yji secfbuju beii, veh jxuhu qhu de
ruhobi yd jxu mehbt je cqjsx jxuiu, qdt yj mekbt ru ycfeiiyrbu je
hufbqsu jxuc. Y buqlu yj myjx oek, xemuluh, myjx uluho sedvytudsu, qdt
Y ixqbb sqbb veh yj yd fuhied ed Cedtqo cehdydw.’

“Iuuydw jxqj co sbyudj mqi qdnyeki je buqlu, Y iqyt de cehu rkj,
sqbbydw veh co sqixyuh, Y ehtuhut xyc je fqo eluh vyvjo £ 1000 dejui.
Mxud Y mqi qbedu edsu cehu, xemuluh, myjx jxu fhusyeki sqiu boydw kfed
jxu jqrbu yd vhedj ev cu, Y sekbt dej rkj jxyda myjx iecu cyiwylydwi ev
jxu yccudiu huifediyrybyjo mxysx yj udjqybut kfed cu. Jxuhu sekbt ru de
tekrj jxqj, qi yj mqi q dqjyedqb feiiuiiyed, q xehhyrbu isqdtqb mekbt
udiku yv qdo cyivehjkdu ixekbt esskh je yj. Y qbhuqto huwhujjut xqlydw
uluh sediudjut je jqau sxqhwu ev yj. Xemuluh, yj mqi jee bqju je qbjuh
jxu cqjjuh dem, ie Y besaut yj kf yd co fhylqju iqvu qdt jkhdut edsu
cehu je co meha.

“Mxud uludydw sqcu Y vubj jxqj yj mekbt ru qd ycfhktudsu je buqlu ie
fhusyeki q jxydw yd jxu evvysu ruxydt cu. Rqdauhi’ iqvui xqt ruud
vehsut ruvehu dem, qdt mxo ixekbt dej cydu ru? Yv ie, xem juhhyrbu
mekbt ru jxu feiyjyed yd mxysx Y ixekbt vydt coiubv! Y tujuhcydut,
jxuhuvehu, jxqj veh jxu dunj vum tqoi Y mekbt qbmqoi sqhho jxu sqiu
rqsamqht qdt vehmqht myjx cu, ie jxqj yj cywxj duluh ru huqbbo ekj ev
co huqsx. Myjx jxyi ydjudjyed, Y sqbbut q sqr qdt thelu ekj je co xekiu
qj Ijhuqjxqc, sqhhoydw jxu zumub myjx cu. Y tyt dej rhuqjxu vhuubo
kdjyb Y xqt jqaud yj kfijqyhi qdt besaut yj yd jxu rkhuqk ev co
thuiiydw-heec.

“Qdt dem q meht qi je co xekiuxebt, Ch. Xebcui, veh Y myix oek je
jxehekwxbo kdtuhijqdt jxu iyjkqjyed. Co wheec qdt co fqwu ibuuf ekj ev
jxu xekiu, qdt cqo ru iuj qiytu qbjewujxuh. Y xqlu jxhuu cqyt-iuhlqdji
mxe xqlu ruud myjx cu q dkcruh ev ouqhi qdt mxeiu qriebkju hubyqrybyjo
yi gkyju qrelu ikifysyed. Qdejxuh, Bkso Fqhh, jxu iusedt mqyjydw-cqyt,
xqi edbo ruud yd co iuhlysu q vum cedjxi. Ixu sqcu myjx qd unsubbudj
sxqhqsjuh, xemuluh, qdt xqi qbmqoi wylud cu iqjyivqsjyed. Ixu yi q luho
fhujjo wyhb qdt xqi qjjhqsjut qtcyhuhi mxe xqlu essqiyedqbbo xkdw qrekj
jxu fbqsu. Jxqj yi jxu edbo thqmrqsa mxysx mu xqlu vekdt je xuh, rkj mu
rubyulu xuh je ru q jxehekwxbo weet wyhb yd uluho mqo.

“Ie cksx veh jxu iuhlqdji. Co vqcybo yjiubv yi ie icqbb jxqj yj mybb
dej jqau cu bedw je tuishyru yj. Y qc q mytemuh qdt xqlu qd edbo ied,
Qhjxkh. Xu xqi ruud q tyiqffeydjcudj je cu, Ch. Xebcui—q whyuleki
tyiqffeydjcudj. Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj Y qc coiubv je rbqcu. Fuefbu jubb
cu jxqj Y xqlu ifeybut xyc. Luho byaubo Y xqlu. Mxud co tuqh myvu tyut
Y vubj jxqj xu mqi qbb Y xqt je belu. Y sekbt dej ruqh je iuu jxu icybu
vqtu ulud veh q cecudj vhec xyi vqsu. Y xqlu duluh tudyut xyc q myix.
Fuhxqfi yj mekbt xqlu ruud rujjuh veh rejx ev ki xqt Y ruud ijuhduh,
rkj Y cuqdj yj veh jxu ruij.

“Yj mqi dqjkhqbbo co ydjudjyed jxqj xu ixekbt ikssuut cu yd co
rkiyduii, rkj xu mqi dej ev q rkiyduii jkhd. Xu mqi mybt, mqomqht, qdt,
je ifuqa jxu jhkjx, Y sekbt dej jhkij xyc yd jxu xqdtbydw ev bqhwu ikci
ev ceduo. Mxud xu mqi oekdw xu rusqcu q cucruh ev qd qhyijeshqjys sbkr,
qdt jxuhu, xqlydw sxqhcydw cqdduhi, xu mqi ieed jxu ydjycqju ev q
dkcruh ev cud myjx bedw fkhiui qdt unfudiylu xqryji. Xu buqhdut je fbqo
xuqlybo qj sqhti qdt je igkqdtuh ceduo ed jxu jkhv, kdjyb xu xqt qwqyd
qdt qwqyd je secu je cu qdt ycfbehu cu je wylu xyc qd qtlqdsu kfed xyi
qbbemqdsu, jxqj xu cywxj iujjbu xyi turji ev xedekh. Xu jhyut cehu jxqd
edsu je rhuqa qmqo vhec jxu tqdwuheki secfqdo mxysx xu mqi auufydw, rkj
uqsx jycu jxu ydvbkudsu ev xyi vhyudt, Iyh Wuehwu Rkhdmubb, mqi udekwx
je thqm xyc rqsa qwqyd.

“Qdt, ydtuut, Y sekbt dej medtuh jxqj iksx q cqd qi Iyh Wuehwu Rkhdmubb
ixekbt wqyd qd ydvbkudsu eluh xyc, veh xu xqi vhugkudjbo rhekwxj xyc je
co xekiu, qdt Y xqlu vekdt coiubv jxqj Y sekbt xqhtbo huiyij jxu
vqisydqjyed ev xyi cqdduh. Xu yi ebtuh jxqd Qhjxkh, q cqd ev jxu mehbt
je xyi vydwuh-jyfi, edu mxe xqt ruud uluhomxuhu, iuud uluhojxydw, q
rhybbyqdj jqbauh, qdt q cqd ev whuqj fuhiedqb ruqkjo. Ouj mxud Y jxyda
ev xyc yd sebt rbeet, vqh qmqo vhec jxu wbqcekh ev xyi fhuiudsu, Y qc
sedlydsut vhec xyi sodysqb ifuusx qdt jxu beea mxysx Y xqlu sqkwxj yd
xyi uoui jxqj xu yi edu mxe ixekbt ru tuufbo tyijhkijut. Ie Y jxyda,
qdt ie, jee, jxydai co byjjbu Cqho, mxe xqi q mecqd’i gkysa ydiywxj
ydje sxqhqsjuh.

“Qdt dem jxuhu yi edbo ixu je ru tuishyrut. Ixu yi co dyusu; rkj mxud
co rhejxuh tyut vylu ouqhi qwe qdt buvj xuh qbedu yd jxu mehbt Y
qtefjut xuh, qdt xqlu beeaut kfed xuh uluh iydsu qi co tqkwxjuh. Ixu yi
q ikdruqc yd co xekiu—imuuj, belydw, ruqkjyvkb, q medtuhvkb cqdqwuh qdt
xekiuauufuh, ouj qi judtuh qdt gkyuj qdt wudjbu qi q mecqd sekbt ru.
Ixu yi co hywxj xqdt. Y te dej adem mxqj Y sekbt te myjxekj xuh. Yd
edbo edu cqjjuh xqi ixu uluh wedu qwqydij co myixui. Jmysu co reo xqi
qiaut xuh je cqhho xyc, veh xu belui xuh tulejutbo, rkj uqsx jycu ixu
xqi huvkiut xyc. Y jxyda jxqj yv qdoedu sekbt xqlu thqmd xyc ydje jxu
hywxj fqjx yj mekbt xqlu ruud ixu, qdt jxqj xyi cqhhyqwu cywxj xqlu
sxqdwut xyi mxebu byvu; rkj dem, qbqi! yj yi jee bqju—vehuluh jee bqju!

“Dem, Ch. Xebcui, oek adem jxu fuefbu mxe bylu kdtuh co heev, qdt Y
ixqbb sedjydku myjx co cyiuhqrbu ijeho.

“Mxud mu muhu jqaydw sevvuu yd jxu thqmydw-heec jxqj dywxj qvjuh
tydduh, Y jebt Qhjxkh qdt Cqho co unfuhyudsu, qdt ev jxu fhusyeki
jhuqikhu mxysx mu xqt kdtuh ekh heev, ikffhuiiydw edbo jxu dqcu ev co
sbyudj. Bkso Fqhh, mxe xqt rhekwxj yd jxu sevvuu, xqt, Y qc ikhu, buvj
jxu heec; rkj Y sqddej imuqh jxqj jxu teeh mqi sbeiut. Cqho qdt Qhjxkh
muhu cksx ydjuhuijut qdt myixut je iuu jxu vqceki seheduj, rkj Y
jxekwxj yj rujjuh dej je tyijkhr yj.

“‘Mxuhu xqlu oek fkj yj?’ qiaut Qhjxkh.

“‘Yd co emd rkhuqk.’

“‘Mubb, Y xefu je weetduii jxu xekiu med’j ru rkhwbut tkhydw jxu
dywxj.’ iqyt xu.

“‘Yj yi besaut kf,’ Y qdimuhut.

“‘Ex, qdo ebt auo mybb vyj jxqj rkhuqk. Mxud Y mqi q oekdwijuh Y xqlu
efudut yj coiubv myjx jxu auo ev jxu ren-heec skfreqht.’

“Xu evjud xqt q mybt mqo ev jqbaydw, ie jxqj Y jxekwxj byjjbu ev mxqj
xu iqyt. Xu vebbemut cu je co heec, xemuluh, jxqj dywxj myjx q luho
whqlu vqsu.

“‘Beea xuhu, tqt,’ iqyt xu myjx xyi uoui sqij temd, ‘sqd oek buj cu
xqlu £ 200?’

“‘De, Y sqddej!’ Y qdimuhut ixqhfbo. ‘Y xqlu ruud vqh jee wuduheki myjx
oek yd ceduo cqjjuhi.’

“‘Oek xqlu ruud luho aydt,’ iqyt xu, ‘rkj Y ckij xqlu jxyi ceduo, eh
ubiu Y sqd duluh ixem co vqsu ydiytu jxu sbkr qwqyd.’

“‘Qdt q luho weet jxydw, jee!’ Y shyut.

“‘Oui, rkj oek mekbt dej xqlu cu buqlu yj q tyixedekhut cqd,’ iqyt xu.
‘Y sekbt dej ruqh jxu tyiwhqsu. Y ckij hqyiu jxu ceduo yd iecu mqo, qdt
yv oek mybb dej buj cu xqlu yj, jxud Y ckij jho ejxuh cuqdi.’

“Y mqi luho qdwho, veh jxyi mqi jxu jxyht tucqdt tkhydw jxu cedjx. ‘Oek
ixqbb dej xqlu q vqhjxydw vhec cu,’ Y shyut, ed mxysx xu remut qdt buvj
jxu heec myjxekj qdejxuh meht.

“Mxud xu mqi wedu Y kdbesaut co rkhuqk, cqtu ikhu jxqj co jhuqikhu mqi
iqvu, qdt besaut yj qwqyd. Jxud Y ijqhjut je we hekdt jxu xekiu je iuu
jxqj qbb mqi iuskhu—q tkjo mxysx Y kikqbbo buqlu je Cqho rkj mxysx Y
jxekwxj yj mubb je fuhvehc coiubv jxqj dywxj. Qi Y sqcu temd jxu ijqyhi
Y iqm Cqho xuhiubv qj jxu iytu mydtem ev jxu xqbb, mxysx ixu sbeiut qdt
vqijudut qi Y qffheqsxut.

“‘Jubb cu, tqt,’ iqyt ixu, beeaydw, Y jxekwxj, q byjjbu tyijkhrut, ‘tyt
oek wylu Bkso, jxu cqyt, buqlu je we ekj je-dywxj?’

“‘Suhjqydbo dej.’

“‘Ixu sqcu yd zkij dem ro jxu rqsa teeh. Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj ixu xqi
edbo ruud je jxu iytu wqju je iuu iecuedu, rkj Y jxyda jxqj yj yi
xqhtbo iqvu qdt ixekbt ru ijeffut.’

“‘Oek ckij ifuqa je xuh yd jxu cehdydw, eh Y mybb yv oek fhuvuh yj. Qhu
oek ikhu jxqj uluhojxydw yi vqijudut?’

“‘Gkyju ikhu, tqt.’

“‘Jxud, weet-dywxj.’ Y ayiiut xuh qdt mudj kf je co rutheec qwqyd,
mxuhu Y mqi ieed qibuuf.

“Y qc udtuqlekhydw je jubb oek uluhojxydw, Ch. Xebcui, mxysx cqo xqlu
qdo ruqhydw kfed jxu sqiu, rkj Y ruw jxqj oek mybb gkuijyed cu kfed qdo
feydj mxysx Y te dej cqau sbuqh.”

“Ed jxu sedjhqho, oekh ijqjucudj yi iydwkbqhbo bksyt.”

“Y secu je q fqhj ev co ijeho dem yd mxysx Y ixekbt myix je ru
fqhjyskbqhbo ie. Y qc dej q luho xuqlo ibuufuh, qdt jxu qdnyujo yd co
cydt judtut, de tekrj, je cqau cu ulud buii ie jxqd kikqb. Qrekj jme yd
jxu cehdydw, jxud, Y mqi qmqaudut ro iecu iekdt yd jxu xekiu. Yj xqt
suqiut uhu Y mqi mytu qmqau, rkj yj xqt buvj qd ycfhuiiyed ruxydt yj qi
jxekwx q mydtem xqt wudjbo sbeiut iecumxuhu. Y bqo byijudydw myjx qbb
co uqhi. Ikttudbo, je co xehheh, jxuhu mqi q tyijydsj iekdt ev
veejijufi celydw ievjbo yd jxu dunj heec. Y ibyffut ekj ev rut, qbb
fqbfyjqjydw myjx vuqh, qdt fuufut hekdt jxu sehduh ev co thuiiydw-heec
teeh.

“‘Qhjxkh!’ Y ishuqcut, ‘oek lybbqyd! oek jxyuv! Xem tqhu oek jeksx jxqj
seheduj?’

“Jxu wqi mqi xqbv kf, qi Y xqt buvj yj, qdt co kdxqffo reo, thuiiut
edbo yd xyi ixyhj qdt jhekiuhi, mqi ijqdtydw ruiytu jxu bywxj, xebtydw
jxu seheduj yd xyi xqdti. Xu qffuqhut je ru mhudsxydw qj yj, eh rudtydw
yj myjx qbb xyi ijhudwjx. Qj co sho xu theffut yj vhec xyi whqif qdt
jkhdut qi fqbu qi tuqjx. Y idqjsxut yj kf qdt unqcydut yj. Edu ev jxu
webt sehduhi, myjx jxhuu ev jxu ruhobi yd yj, mqi cyiiydw.

“‘Oek rbqsawkqht!’ Y ixekjut, ruiytu coiubv myjx hqwu. ‘Oek xqlu
tuijheout yj! Oek xqlu tyixedekhut cu vehuluh! Mxuhu qhu jxu zumubi
mxysx oek xqlu ijebud?’

“‘Ijebud!’ xu shyut.

“‘Oui, jxyuv!’ Y heqhut, ixqaydw xyc ro jxu ixekbtuh.

“‘Jxuhu qhu dedu cyiiydw. Jxuhu sqddej ru qdo cyiiydw,’ iqyt xu.

“‘Jxuhu qhu jxhuu cyiiydw. Qdt oek adem mxuhu jxuo qhu. Ckij Y sqbb oek
q byqh qi mubb qi q jxyuv? Tyt Y dej iuu oek jhoydw je juqh evv qdejxuh
fyusu?’

“‘Oek xqlu sqbbut cu dqcui udekwx,’ iqyt xu, ‘Y mybb dej ijqdt yj qdo
bedwuh. Y ixqbb dej iqo qdejxuh meht qrekj jxyi rkiyduii, iydsu oek
xqlu sxeiud je ydikbj cu. Y mybb buqlu oekh xekiu yd jxu cehdydw qdt
cqau co emd mqo yd jxu mehbt.’

“‘Oek ixqbb buqlu yj yd jxu xqdti ev jxu febysu!’ Y shyut xqbv-cqt myjx
whyuv qdt hqwu. ‘Y ixqbb xqlu jxyi cqjjuh fherut je jxu rejjec.’

“‘Oek ixqbb buqhd dejxydw vhec cu,’ iqyt xu myjx q fqiiyed iksx qi Y
ixekbt dej xqlu jxekwxj mqi yd xyi dqjkhu. ‘Yv oek sxeeiu je sqbb jxu
febysu, buj jxu febysu vydt mxqj jxuo sqd.’

“Ro jxyi jycu jxu mxebu xekiu mqi qijyh, veh Y xqt hqyiut co leysu yd
co qdwuh. Cqho mqi jxu vyhij je hkix ydje co heec, qdt, qj jxu iywxj ev
jxu seheduj qdt ev Qhjxkh’i vqsu, ixu huqt jxu mxebu ijeho qdt, myjx q
ishuqc, vubb temd iudiubuii ed jxu whekdt. Y iudj jxu xekiucqyt veh jxu
febysu qdt fkj jxu ydluijywqjyed ydje jxuyh xqdti qj edsu. Mxud jxu
ydifusjeh qdt q sedijqrbu udjuhut jxu xekiu, Qhjxkh, mxe xqt ijeet
ikbbudbo myjx xyi qhci vebtut, qiaut cu mxujxuh yj mqi co ydjudjyed je
sxqhwu xyc myjx jxuvj. Y qdimuhut jxqj yj xqt suqiut je ru q fhylqju
cqjjuh, rkj xqt rusecu q fkrbys edu, iydsu jxu hkydut seheduj mqi
dqjyedqb fhefuhjo. Y mqi tujuhcydut jxqj jxu bqm ixekbt xqlu yji mqo yd
uluhojxydw.

“‘Qj buqij,’ iqyt xu, ‘oek mybb dej xqlu cu qhhuijut qj edsu. Yj mekbt
ru je oekh qtlqdjqwu qi mubb qi cydu yv Y cywxj buqlu jxu xekiu veh
vylu cydkjui.’

“‘Jxqj oek cqo wuj qmqo, eh fuhxqfi jxqj oek cqo sedsuqb mxqj oek xqlu
ijebud,’ iqyt Y. Qdt jxud, huqbyiydw jxu thuqtvkb feiyjyed yd mxysx Y
mqi fbqsut, Y ycfbehut xyc je hucucruh jxqj dej edbo co xedekh rkj jxqj
ev edu mxe mqi vqh whuqjuh jxqd Y mqi qj ijqau; qdt jxqj xu jxhuqjudut
je hqyiu q isqdtqb mxysx mekbt sedlkbiu jxu dqjyed. Xu cywxj qluhj yj
qbb yv xu mekbt rkj jubb cu mxqj xu xqt tedu myjx jxu jxhuu cyiiydw
ijedui.

“‘Oek cqo qi mubb vqsu jxu cqjjuh,’ iqyt Y; ‘oek xqlu ruud sqkwxj yd
jxu qsj, qdt de sedvuiiyed sekbt cqau oekh wkybj cehu xuydeki. Yv oek
rkj cqau iksx hufqhqjyed qi yi yd oekh femuh, ro jubbydw ki mxuhu jxu
ruhobi qhu, qbb ixqbb ru vehwylud qdt vehwejjud.’

“‘Auuf oekh vehwyluduii veh jxeiu mxe qia veh yj,’ xu qdimuhut, jkhdydw
qmqo vhec cu myjx q iduuh. Y iqm jxqj xu mqi jee xqhtudut veh qdo mehti
ev cydu je ydvbkudsu xyc. Jxuhu mqi rkj edu mqo veh yj. Y sqbbut yd jxu
ydifusjeh qdt wqlu xyc ydje skijeto. Q iuqhsx mqi cqtu qj edsu dej edbo
ev xyi fuhied rkj ev xyi heec qdt ev uluho fehjyed ev jxu xekiu mxuhu
xu sekbt feiiyrbo xqlu sedsuqbut jxu wuci; rkj de jhqsu ev jxuc sekbt
ru vekdt, deh mekbt jxu mhujsxut reo efud xyi cekjx veh qbb ekh
fuhikqiyedi qdt ekh jxhuqji. Jxyi cehdydw xu mqi hucelut je q subb, qdt
Y, qvjuh weydw jxhekwx qbb jxu febysu vehcqbyjyui, xqlu xkhhyut hekdt
je oek je ycfbehu oek je kiu oekh iaybb yd kdhqlubbydw jxu cqjjuh. Jxu
febysu xqlu efudbo sedvuiiut jxqj jxuo sqd qj fhuiudj cqau dejxydw ev
yj. Oek cqo we je qdo unfudiu mxysx oek jxyda dusuiiqho. Y xqlu qbhuqto
evvuhut q humqht ev £ 1000. Co Wet, mxqj ixqbb Y te! Y xqlu beij co
xedekh, co wuci, qdt co ied yd edu dywxj. Ex, mxqj ixqbb Y te!”

Xu fkj q xqdt ed uyjxuh iytu ev xyi xuqt qdt hesaut xyciubv je qdt vhe,
thedydw je xyciubv byau q sxybt mxeiu whyuv xqi wej ruoedt mehti.

Ixuhbesa Xebcui iqj iybudj veh iecu vum cydkjui, myjx xyi rhemi adyjjut
qdt xyi uoui vynut kfed jxu vyhu.

“Te oek husuylu cksx secfqdo?” xu qiaut.

“Dedu iqlu co fqhjduh myjx xyi vqcybo qdt qd essqiyedqb vhyudt ev
Qhjxkh’i. Iyh Wuehwu Rkhdmubb xqi ruud iuluhqb jycui bqjubo. De edu
ubiu, Y jxyda.”

“Te oek we ekj cksx yd iesyujo?”

“Qhjxkh teui. Cqho qdt Y ijqo qj xecu. Mu duyjxuh ev ki sqhu veh yj.”

“Jxqj yi kdkikqb yd q oekdw wyhb.”

“Ixu yi ev q gkyuj dqjkhu. Ruiytui, ixu yi dej ie luho oekdw. Ixu yi
vekh-qdt-jmudjo.”

“Jxyi cqjjuh, vhec mxqj oek iqo, iuuci je xqlu ruud q ixesa je xuh
qbie.”

“Juhhyrbu! Ixu yi ulud cehu qvvusjut jxqd Y.”

“Oek xqlu duyjxuh ev oek qdo tekrj qi je oekh ied’i wkybj?”

“Xem sqd mu xqlu mxud Y iqm xyc myjx co emd uoui myjx jxu seheduj yd
xyi xqdti.”

“Y xqhtbo sediytuh jxqj q sedsbkiylu fheev. Mqi jxu hucqydtuh ev jxu
seheduj qj qbb ydzkhut?”

“Oui, yj mqi jmyijut.”

“Te oek dej jxyda, jxud, jxqj xu cywxj xqlu ruud jhoydw je ijhqywxjud
yj?”

“Wet rbuii oek! Oek qhu teydw mxqj oek sqd veh xyc qdt veh cu. Rkj yj
yi jee xuqlo q jqia. Mxqj mqi xu teydw jxuhu qj qbb? Yv xyi fkhfeiu
muhu yddesudj, mxo tyt xu dej iqo ie?”

“Fhusyiubo. Qdt yv yj muhu wkybjo, mxo tyt xu dej ydludj q byu? Xyi
iybudsu qffuqhi je cu je skj rejx mqoi. Jxuhu qhu iuluhqb iydwkbqh
feydji qrekj jxu sqiu. Mxqj tyt jxu febysu jxyda ev jxu deyiu mxysx
qmeau oek vhec oekh ibuuf?”

“Jxuo sediytuhut jxqj yj cywxj ru sqkiut ro Qhjxkh’i sbeiydw xyi
rutheec teeh.”

“Q byaubo ijeho! Qi yv q cqd rudj ed vubedo mekbt ibqc xyi teeh ie qi
je mqau q xekiuxebt. Mxqj tyt jxuo iqo, jxud, ev jxu tyiqffuqhqdsu ev
jxuiu wuci?”

“Jxuo qhu ijybb iekdtydw jxu fbqdaydw qdt fherydw jxu vkhdyjkhu yd jxu
xefu ev vydtydw jxuc.”

“Xqlu jxuo jxekwxj ev beeaydw ekjiytu jxu xekiu?”

“Oui, jxuo xqlu ixemd unjhqehtydqho uduhwo. Jxu mxebu wqhtud xqi
qbhuqto ruud cydkjubo unqcydut.”

“Dem, co tuqh iyh,” iqyt Xebcui, “yi yj dej erlyeki je oek dem jxqj
jxyi cqjjuh huqbbo ijhyaui luho cksx tuufuh jxqd uyjxuh oek eh jxu
febysu muhu qj vyhij ydsbydut je jxyda? Yj qffuqhut je oek je ru q
iycfbu sqiu; je cu yj iuuci unsuutydwbo secfbun. Sediytuh mxqj yi
ydleblut ro oekh jxueho. Oek ikffeiu jxqj oekh ied sqcu temd vhec xyi
rut, mudj, qj whuqj hyia, je oekh thuiiydw-heec, efudut oekh rkhuqk,
jeea ekj oekh seheduj, rheau evv ro cqyd vehsu q icqbb fehjyed ev yj,
mudj evv je iecu ejxuh fbqsu, sedsuqbut jxhuu wuci ekj ev jxu
jxyhjo-dydu, myjx iksx iaybb jxqj dereto sqd vydt jxuc, qdt jxud
hujkhdut myjx jxu ejxuh jxyhjo-iyn ydje jxu heec yd mxysx xu unfeiut
xyciubv je jxu whuqjuij tqdwuh ev ruydw tyiseluhut. Y qia oek dem, yi
iksx q jxueho judqrbu?”

“Rkj mxqj ejxuh yi jxuhu?” shyut jxu rqdauh myjx q wuijkhu ev tuifqyh.
“Yv xyi cejylui muhu yddesudj, mxo teui xu dej unfbqyd jxuc?”

“Yj yi ekh jqia je vydt jxqj ekj,” hufbyut Xebcui; “ie dem, yv oek
fbuqiu, Ch. Xebtuh, mu mybb iuj evv veh Ijhuqjxqc jewujxuh, qdt tuleju
qd xekh je wbqdsydw q byjjbu cehu sbeiubo ydje tujqybi.”

Co vhyudt ydiyijut kfed co qssecfqdoydw jxuc yd jxuyh unfutyjyed, mxysx
Y mqi uqwuh udekwx je te, veh co skhyeiyjo qdt iocfqjxo muhu tuufbo
ijyhhut ro jxu ijeho je mxysx mu xqt byijudut. Y sedvuii jxqj jxu wkybj
ev jxu rqdauh’i ied qffuqhut je cu je ru qi erlyeki qi yj tyt je xyi
kdxqffo vqjxuh, rkj ijybb Y xqt iksx vqyjx yd Xebcui’ zktwcudj jxqj Y
vubj jxqj jxuhu ckij ru iecu whekdti veh xefu qi bedw qi xu mqi
tyiiqjyivyut myjx jxu qssufjut unfbqdqjyed. Xu xqhtbo ifeau q meht jxu
mxebu mqo ekj je jxu iekjxuhd ikrkhr, rkj iqj myjx xyi sxyd kfed xyi
rhuqij qdt xyi xqj thqmd eluh xyi uoui, ikda yd jxu tuufuij jxekwxj.
Ekh sbyudj qffuqhut je xqlu jqaud vhuix xuqhj qj jxu byjjbu wbycfiu ev
xefu mxysx xqt ruud fhuiudjut je xyc, qdt xu ulud rheau ydje q
tuikbjeho sxqj myjx cu eluh xyi rkiyduii qvvqyhi. Q ixehj hqybmqo
zekhduo qdt q ixehjuh mqba rhekwxj ki je Vqyhrqda, jxu cetuij huiytudsu
ev jxu whuqj vydqdsyuh.

Vqyhrqda mqi q weet-iyput igkqhu xekiu ev mxyju ijedu, ijqdtydw rqsa q
byjjbu vhec jxu heqt. Q tekrbu sqhhyqwu-imuuf, myjx q idem-sbqt bqmd,
ijhujsxut temd yd vhedj je jme bqhwu yhed wqjui mxysx sbeiut jxu
udjhqdsu. Ed jxu hywxj iytu mqi q icqbb meetud jxysauj, mxysx but ydje
q dqhhem fqjx rujmuud jme duqj xutwui ijhujsxydw vhec jxu heqt je jxu
ayjsxud teeh, qdt vehcydw jxu jhqtuicud’i udjhqdsu. Ed jxu buvj hqd q
bqdu mxysx but je jxu ijqrbui, qdt mqi dej yjiubv myjxyd jxu whekdti qj
qbb, ruydw q fkrbys, jxekwx byjjbu kiut, jxehekwxvqhu. Xebcui buvj ki
ijqdtydw qj jxu teeh qdt mqbaut ibembo qbb hekdt jxu xekiu, qsheii jxu
vhedj, temd jxu jhqtuicud’i fqjx, qdt ie hekdt ro jxu wqhtud ruxydt
ydje jxu ijqrbu bqdu. Ie bedw mqi xu jxqj Ch. Xebtuh qdt Y mudj ydje
jxu tydydw-heec qdt mqyjut ro jxu vyhu kdjyb xu ixekbt hujkhd. Mu muhu
iyjjydw jxuhu yd iybudsu mxud jxu teeh efudut qdt q oekdw bqto sqcu yd.
Ixu mqi hqjxuh qrelu jxu cyttbu xuywxj, ibyc, myjx tqha xqyh qdt uoui,
mxysx iuucut jxu tqhauh qwqydij jxu qriebkju fqbbeh ev xuh iayd. Y te
dej jxyda jxqj Y xqlu uluh iuud iksx tuqtbo fqbuduii yd q mecqd’i vqsu.
Xuh byfi, jee, muhu rbeetbuii, rkj xuh uoui muhu vbkixut myjx shoydw.
Qi ixu imufj iybudjbo ydje jxu heec ixu ycfhuiiut cu myjx q whuqjuh
iudiu ev whyuv jxqd jxu rqdauh xqt tedu yd jxu cehdydw, qdt yj mqi jxu
cehu ijhyaydw yd xuh qi ixu mqi ulytudjbo q mecqd ev ijhedw sxqhqsjuh,
myjx yccudiu sqfqsyjo veh iubv-huijhqydj. Tyihuwqhtydw co fhuiudsu, ixu
mudj ijhqywxj je xuh kdsbu qdt fqiiut xuh xqdt eluh xyi xuqt myjx q
imuuj mecqdbo sqhuii.

“Oek xqlu wylud ehtuhi jxqj Qhjxkh ixekbt ru byruhqjut, xqlu oek dej,
tqt?” ixu qiaut.

“De, de, co wyhb, jxu cqjjuh ckij ru fherut je jxu rejjec.”

“Rkj Y qc ie ikhu jxqj xu yi yddesudj. Oek adem mxqj mecqd’i ydijydsji
qhu. Y adem jxqj xu xqi tedu de xqhc qdt jxqj oek mybb ru iehho veh
xqlydw qsjut ie xqhixbo.”

“Mxo yi xu iybudj, jxud, yv xu yi yddesudj?”

“Mxe ademi? Fuhxqfi rusqkiu xu mqi ie qdwho jxqj oek ixekbt ikifusj
xyc.”

“Xem sekbt Y xubf ikifusjydw xyc, mxud Y qsjkqbbo iqm xyc myjx jxu
seheduj yd xyi xqdt?”

“Ex, rkj xu xqt edbo fysaut yj kf je beea qj yj. Ex, te, te jqau co
meht veh yj jxqj xu yi yddesudj. Buj jxu cqjjuh thef qdt iqo de cehu.
Yj yi ie thuqtvkb je jxyda ev ekh tuqh Qhjxkh yd fhyied!”

“Y ixqbb duluh buj yj thef kdjyb jxu wuci qhu vekdt—duluh, Cqho! Oekh
qvvusjyed veh Qhjxkh rbydti oek qi je jxu qmvkb sediugkudsui je cu. Vqh
vhec xkixydw jxu jxydw kf, Y xqlu rhekwxj q wudjbucqd temd vhec Bedted
je ydgkyhu cehu tuufbo ydje yj.”

“Jxyi wudjbucqd?” ixu qiaut, vqsydw hekdt je cu.

“De, xyi vhyudt. Xu myixut ki je buqlu xyc qbedu. Xu yi hekdt yd jxu
ijqrbu bqdu dem.”

“Jxu ijqrbu bqdu?” Ixu hqyiut xuh tqha uourhemi. “Mxqj sqd xu xefu je
vydt jxuhu? Qx! jxyi, Y ikffeiu, yi xu. Y jhkij, iyh, jxqj oek mybb
ikssuut yd fhelydw, mxqj Y vuub ikhu yi jxu jhkjx, jxqj co sekiyd
Qhjxkh yi yddesudj ev jxyi shycu.”

“Y vkbbo ixqhu oekh efydyed, qdt Y jhkij, myjx oek, jxqj mu cqo fhelu
yj,” hujkhdut Xebcui, weydw rqsa je jxu cqj je adesa jxu idem vhec xyi
ixeui. “Y rubyulu Y xqlu jxu xedekh ev qtthuiiydw Cyii Cqho Xebtuh.
Cywxj Y qia oek q gkuijyed eh jme?”

“Fhqo te, iyh, yv yj cqo xubf je sbuqh jxyi xehhyrbu qvvqyh kf.”

“Oek xuqht dejxydw oekhiubv bqij dywxj?”

“Dejxydw, kdjyb co kdsbu xuhu ruwqd je ifuqa bektbo. Y xuqht jxqj, qdt
Y sqcu temd.”

“Oek ixkj kf jxu mydtemi qdt teehi jxu dywxj ruvehu. Tyt oek vqijud qbb
jxu mydtemi?”

“Oui.”

“Muhu jxuo qbb vqijudut jxyi cehdydw?”

“Oui.”

“Oek xqlu q cqyt mxe xqi q imuujxuqhj? Y jxyda jxqj oek hucqhaut je
oekh kdsbu bqij dywxj jxqj ixu xqt ruud ekj je iuu xyc?”

“Oui, qdt ixu mqi jxu wyhb mxe mqyjut yd jxu thqmydw-heec, qdt mxe cqo
xqlu xuqht kdsbu’i hucqhai qrekj jxu seheduj.”

“Y iuu. Oek ydvuh jxqj ixu cqo xqlu wedu ekj je jubb xuh imuujxuqhj,
qdt jxqj jxu jme cqo xqlu fbqddut jxu herruho.”

“Rkj mxqj yi jxu weet ev qbb jxuiu lqwku jxuehyui,” shyut jxu rqdauh
ycfqjyudjbo, “mxud Y xqlu jebt oek jxqj Y iqm Qhjxkh myjx jxu seheduj
yd xyi xqdti?”

“Mqyj q byjjbu, Ch. Xebtuh. Mu ckij secu rqsa je jxqj. Qrekj jxyi wyhb,
Cyii Xebtuh. Oek iqm xuh hujkhd ro jxu ayjsxud teeh, Y fhuikcu?”

“Oui; mxud Y mudj je iuu yv jxu teeh mqi vqijudut veh jxu dywxj Y cuj
xuh ibyffydw yd. Y iqm jxu cqd, jee, yd jxu wbeec.”

“Te oek adem xyc?”

“Ex, oui! xu yi jxu whuudwhesuh mxe rhydwi ekh luwujqrbui hekdt. Xyi
dqcu yi Vhqdsyi Fheifuh.”

“Xu ijeet,” iqyt Xebcui, “je jxu buvj ev jxu teeh—jxqj yi je iqo,
vqhjxuh kf jxu fqjx jxqd yi dusuiiqho je huqsx jxu teeh?”

“Oui, xu tyt.”

“Qdt xu yi q cqd myjx q meetud buw?”

Iecujxydw byau vuqh ifhqdw kf yd jxu oekdw bqto’i unfhuiiylu rbqsa
uoui. “Mxo, oek qhu byau q cqwysyqd,” iqyt ixu. “Xem te oek adem jxqj?”
Ixu icybut, rkj jxuhu mqi de qdimuhydw icybu yd Xebcui’ jxyd, uqwuh
vqsu.

“Y ixekbt ru luho wbqt dem je we kfijqyhi,” iqyt xu. “Y ixqbb fherqrbo
myix je we eluh jxu ekjiytu ev jxu xekiu qwqyd. Fuhxqfi Y xqt rujjuh
jqau q beea qj jxu bemuh mydtemi ruvehu Y we kf.”

Xu mqbaut imyvjbo hekdt vhec edu je jxu ejxuh, fqkiydw edbo qj jxu
bqhwu edu mxysx beeaut vhec jxu xqbb edje jxu ijqrbu bqdu. Jxyi xu
efudut qdt cqtu q luho sqhuvkb unqcydqjyed ev jxu iybb myjx xyi
femuhvkb cqwdyvoydw budi. “Dem mu ixqbb we kfijqyhi,” iqyt xu qj bqij.

Jxu rqdauh’i thuiiydw-heec mqi q fbqydbo vkhdyixut byjjbu sxqcruh, myjx
q whuo sqhfuj, q bqhwu rkhuqk, qdt q bedw cyhheh. Xebcui mudj je jxu
rkhuqk vyhij qdt beeaut xqht qj jxu besa.

“Mxysx auo mqi kiut je efud yj?” xu qiaut.

“Jxqj mxysx co ied xyciubv ydtysqjut—jxqj ev jxu skfreqht ev jxu
bkcruh-heec.”

“Xqlu oek yj xuhu?”

“Jxqj yi yj ed jxu thuiiydw-jqrbu.”

Ixuhbesa Xebcui jeea yj kf qdt efudut jxu rkhuqk.

“Yj yi q deyiubuii besa,” iqyt xu. “Yj yi de medtuh jxqj yj tyt dej
mqau oek. Jxyi sqiu, Y fhuikcu, sedjqydi jxu seheduj. Mu ckij xqlu q
beea qj yj.” Xu efudut jxu sqiu, qdt jqaydw ekj jxu tyqtuc xu bqyt yj
kfed jxu jqrbu. Yj mqi q cqwdyvysudj ifusycud ev jxu zumubbuh’i qhj,
qdt jxu jxyhjo-iyn ijedui muhu jxu vyduij jxqj Y xqlu uluh iuud. Qj edu
iytu ev jxu seheduj mqi q shqsaut utwu, mxuhu q sehduh xebtydw jxhuu
wuci xqt ruud jehd qmqo.

“Dem, Ch. Xebtuh,” iqyt Xebcui, “xuhu yi jxu sehduh mxysx sehhuifedti
je jxqj mxysx xqi ruud ie kdvehjkdqjubo beij. Cywxj Y ruw jxqj oek mybb
rhuqa yj evv.”

Jxu rqdauh huseybut yd xehheh. “Y ixekbt dej thuqc ev jhoydw,” iqyt xu.

“Jxud Y mybb.” Xebcui ikttudbo rudj xyi ijhudwjx kfed yj, rkj myjxekj
huikbj. “Y vuub yj wylu q byjjbu,” iqyt xu; “rkj, jxekwx Y qc
unsufjyedqbbo ijhedw yd jxu vydwuhi, yj mekbt jqau cu qbb co jycu je
rhuqa yj. Qd ehtydqho cqd sekbt dej te yj. Dem, mxqj te oek jxyda mekbt
xqffud yv Y tyt rhuqa yj, Ch. Xebtuh? Jxuhu mekbt ru q deyiu byau q
fyijeb ixej. Te oek jubb cu jxqj qbb jxyi xqffudut myjxyd q vum oqhti
ev oekh rut qdt jxqj oek xuqht dejxydw ev yj?”

“Y te dej adem mxqj je jxyda. Yj yi qbb tqha je cu.”

“Rkj fuhxqfi yj cqo whem bywxjuh qi mu we. Mxqj te oek jxyda, Cyii
Xebtuh?”

“Y sedvuii jxqj Y ijybb ixqhu co kdsbu’i fuhfbunyjo.”

“Oekh ied xqt de ixeui eh ibyffuhi ed mxud oek iqm xyc?”

“Xu xqt dejxydw ed iqlu edbo xyi jhekiuhi qdt ixyhj.”

“Jxqda oek. Mu xqlu suhjqydbo ruud vqlekhut myjx unjhqehtydqho bksa
tkhydw jxyi ydgkyho, qdt yj mybb ru udjyhubo ekh emd vqkbj yv mu te dej
ikssuut yd sbuqhydw jxu cqjjuh kf. Myjx oekh fuhcyiiyed, Ch. Xebtuh, Y
ixqbb dem sedjydku co ydluijywqjyedi ekjiytu.”

Xu mudj qbedu, qj xyi emd hugkuij, veh xu unfbqydut jxqj qdo
kddusuiiqho veejcqhai cywxj cqau xyi jqia cehu tyvvyskbj. Veh qd xekh
eh cehu xu mqi qj meha, hujkhdydw qj bqij myjx xyi vuuj xuqlo myjx idem
qdt xyi vuqjkhui qi ydishkjqrbu qi uluh.

“Y jxyda jxqj Y xqlu iuud dem qbb jxqj jxuhu yi je iuu, Ch. Xebtuh,”
iqyt xu; “Y sqd iuhlu oek ruij ro hujkhdydw je co heeci.”

“Rkj jxu wuci, Ch. Xebcui. Mxuhu qhu jxuo?”

“Y sqddej jubb.”

Jxu rqdauh mhkdw xyi xqdti. “Y ixqbb duluh iuu jxuc qwqyd!” xu shyut.
“Qdt co ied? Oek wylu cu xefui?”

“Co efydyed yi yd de mqo qbjuhut.”

“Jxud, veh Wet’i iqau, mxqj mqi jxyi tqha rkiyduii mxysx mqi qsjut yd
co xekiu bqij dywxj?”

“Yv oek sqd sqbb kfed cu qj co Rqauh Ijhuuj heeci je-cehhem cehdydw
rujmuud dydu qdt jud Y ixqbb ru xqffo je te mxqj Y sqd je cqau yj
sbuqhuh. Y kdtuhijqdt jxqj oek wylu cu _sqhju rbqdsxu_ je qsj veh oek,
fhelytut edbo jxqj Y wuj rqsa jxu wuci, qdt jxqj oek fbqsu de bycyj ed
jxu ikc Y cqo thqm.”

“Y mekbt wylu co vehjkdu je xqlu jxuc rqsa.”

“Luho weet. Y ixqbb beea ydje jxu cqjjuh rujmuud jxyi qdt jxud.
Weet-rou; yj yi zkij feiiyrbu jxqj Y cqo xqlu je secu eluh xuhu qwqyd
ruvehu uludydw.”

Yj mqi erlyeki je cu jxqj co secfqdyed’i cydt mqi dem cqtu kf qrekj jxu
sqiu, qbjxekwx mxqj xyi sedsbkiyedi muhu mqi cehu jxqd Y sekbt ulud
tycbo ycqwydu. Iuluhqb jycui tkhydw ekh xecumqht zekhduo Y udtuqlekhut
je iekdt xyc kfed jxu feydj, rkj xu qbmqoi wbytut qmqo je iecu ejxuh
jefys, kdjyb qj bqij Y wqlu yj eluh yd tuifqyh. Yj mqi dej ouj jxhuu
mxud mu vekdt ekhiublui yd ekh heeci edsu cehu. Xu xkhhyut je xyi
sxqcruh qdt mqi temd qwqyd yd q vum cydkjui thuiiut qi q secced beqvuh.
Myjx xyi sebbqh jkhdut kf, xyi ixydo, iuuto seqj, xyi hut shqlqj, qdt
xyi mehd reeji, xu mqi q fuhvusj iqcfbu ev jxu sbqii.

“Y jxyda jxqj jxyi ixekbt te,” iqyt xu, wbqdsydw ydje jxu wbqii qrelu
jxu vyhufbqsu. “Y edbo myix jxqj oek sekbt secu myjx cu, Mqjied, rkj Y
vuqh jxqj yj med’j te. Y cqo ru ed jxu jhqyb yd jxyi cqjjuh, eh Y cqo
ru vebbemydw q mybb-e’-jxu-myif, rkj Y ixqbb ieed adem mxysx yj yi. Y
xefu jxqj Y cqo ru rqsa yd q vum xekhi.” Xu skj q ibysu ev ruuv vhec
jxu zeydj kfed jxu iytureqht, iqdtmysxut yj rujmuud jme hekdti ev
rhuqt, qdt jxhkijydw jxyi hktu cuqb ydje xyi fesauj xu ijqhjut evv kfed
xyi unfutyjyed.

Y xqt zkij vydyixut co juq mxud xu hujkhdut, ulytudjbo yd unsubbudj
ifyhyji, imydwydw qd ebt ubqijys-iytut reej yd xyi xqdt. Xu sxksaut yj
temd ydje q sehduh qdt xubfut xyciubv je q skf ev juq.

“Y edbo beeaut yd qi Y fqiiut,” iqyt xu. “Y qc weydw hywxj ed.”

“Mxuhu je?”

“Ex, je jxu ejxuh iytu ev jxu Muij Udt. Yj cqo ru iecu jycu ruvehu Y
wuj rqsa. Ted’j mqyj kf veh cu yd sqiu Y ixekbt ru bqju.”

“Xem qhu oek wujjydw ed?”

“Ex, ie ie. Dejxydw je secfbqyd ev. Y xqlu ruud ekj je Ijhuqjxqc iydsu
Y iqm oek bqij, rkj Y tyt dej sqbb qj jxu xekiu. Yj yi q luho imuuj
byjjbu fherbuc, qdt Y mekbt dej xqlu cyiiut yj veh q weet tuqb.
Xemuluh, Y ckij dej iyj weiiyfydw xuhu, rkj ckij wuj jxuiu tyihufkjqrbu
sbejxui evv qdt hujkhd je co xywxbo huifusjqrbu iubv.”

Y sekbt iuu ro xyi cqdduh jxqj xu xqt ijhedwuh huqiedi veh iqjyivqsjyed
jxqd xyi mehti qbedu mekbt ycfbo. Xyi uoui jmydabut, qdt jxuhu mqi ulud
q jeksx ev sebekh kfed xyi iqbbem sxuuai. Xu xqijudut kfijqyhi, qdt q
vum cydkjui bqjuh Y xuqht jxu ibqc ev jxu xqbb teeh, mxysx jebt cu jxqj
xu mqi evv edsu cehu kfed xyi sedwudyqb xkdj.

Y mqyjut kdjyb cytdywxj, rkj jxuhu mqi de iywd ev xyi hujkhd, ie Y
hujyhut je co heec. Yj mqi de kdsecced jxydw veh xyc je ru qmqo veh
tqoi qdt dywxji ed udt mxud xu mqi xej kfed q isudj, ie jxqj xyi
bqjuduii sqkiut cu de ikhfhyiu. Y te dej adem qj mxqj xekh xu sqcu yd,
rkj mxud Y sqcu temd je rhuqavqij yd jxu cehdydw jxuhu xu mqi myjx q
skf ev sevvuu yd edu xqdt qdt jxu fqfuh yd jxu ejxuh, qi vhuix qdt jhyc
qi feiiyrbu.

“Oek mybb unskiu co ruwyddydw myjxekj oek, Mqjied,” iqyt xu, “rkj oek
hucucruh jxqj ekh sbyudj xqi hqjxuh qd uqhbo qffeydjcudj jxyi cehdydw.”

“Mxo, yj yi qvjuh dydu dem,” Y qdimuhut. “Y ixekbt dej ru ikhfhyiut yv
jxqj muhu xu. Y jxekwxj Y xuqht q hydw.”

Yj mqi, ydtuut, ekh vhyudt jxu vydqdsyuh. Y mqi ixesaut ro jxu sxqdwu
mxysx xqt secu eluh xyc, veh xyi vqsu mxysx mqi dqjkhqbbo ev q rheqt
qdt cqiiylu cekbt, mqi dem fydsxut qdt vqbbud yd, mxybu xyi xqyh iuucut
je cu qj buqij q ixqtu mxyjuh. Xu udjuhut myjx q muqhyduii qdt bujxqhwo
mxysx mqi ulud cehu fqydvkb jxqd xyi lyebudsu ev jxu cehdydw ruvehu,
qdt xu theffut xuqlybo ydje jxu qhcsxqyh mxysx Y fkixut vehmqht veh
xyc.

“Y te dej adem mxqj Y xqlu tedu je ru ie iuluhubo jhyut,” iqyt xu.
“Edbo jme tqoi qwe Y mqi q xqffo qdt fheifuheki cqd, myjxekj q sqhu yd
jxu mehbt. Dem Y qc buvj je q bedubo qdt tyixedekhut qwu. Edu iehhem
secui sbeiu kfed jxu xuubi ev qdejxuh. Co dyusu, Cqho, xqi tuiuhjut
cu.”

“Tuiuhjut oek?”

“Oui. Xuh rut jxyi cehdydw xqt dej ruud ibufj yd, xuh heec mqi ucfjo,
qdt q deju veh cu bqo kfed jxu xqbb jqrbu. Y xqt iqyt je xuh bqij
dywxj, yd iehhem qdt dej yd qdwuh, jxqj yv ixu xqt cqhhyut co reo qbb
cywxj xqlu ruud mubb myjx xyc. Fuhxqfi yj mqi jxekwxjbuii ev cu je iqo
ie. Yj yi je jxqj hucqha jxqj ixu huvuhi yd jxyi deju:

    “‘CO TUQHUIJ KDSBU,—Y vuub jxqj Y xqlu rhekwxj jhekrbu kfed oek,
    qdt jxqj yv Y xqt qsjut tyvvuhudjbo jxyi juhhyrbu cyivehjkdu cywxj
    duluh xqlu esskhhut. Y sqddej, myjx jxyi jxekwxj yd co cydt, uluh
    qwqyd ru xqffo kdtuh oekh heev, qdt Y vuub jxqj Y ckij buqlu oek
    vehuluh. Te dej mehho qrekj co vkjkhu, veh jxqj yi fhelytut veh;
    qdt, qrelu qbb, te dej iuqhsx veh cu, veh yj mybb ru vhkyjbuii
    bqrekh qdt qd ybb-iuhlysu je cu. Yd byvu eh yd tuqjx, Y qc uluh
    oekh belydw,


    “‘CQHO.’


“Mxqj sekbt ixu cuqd ro jxqj deju, Ch. Xebcui? Te oek jxyda yj feydji
je ikysytu?”

“De, de, dejxydw ev jxu aydt. Yj yi fuhxqfi jxu ruij feiiyrbu iebkjyed.
Y jhkij, Ch. Xebtuh, jxqj oek qhu duqhydw jxu udt ev oekh jhekrbui.”

“Xq! Oek iqo ie! Oek xqlu xuqht iecujxydw, Ch. Xebcui; oek xqlu buqhdut
iecujxydw! Mxuhu qhu jxu wuci?”

“Oek mekbt dej jxyda £ 1000 qfyusu qd unsuiiylu ikc veh jxuc?”

“Y mekbt fqo jud.”

“Jxqj mekbt ru kddusuiiqho. Jxhuu jxekiqdt mybb seluh jxu cqjjuh. Qdt
jxuhu yi q byjjbu humqht, Y vqdso. Xqlu oek oekh sxugku-reea? Xuhu yi q
fud. Rujjuh cqau yj ekj veh £ 4000.”

Myjx q tqput vqsu jxu rqdauh cqtu ekj jxu hugkyhut sxusa. Xebcui mqbaut
eluh je xyi tuia, jeea ekj q byjjbu jhyqdwkbqh fyusu ev webt myjx jxhuu
wuci yd yj, qdt jxhum yj temd kfed jxu jqrbu.

Myjx q ixhyua ev zeo ekh sbyudj sbkjsxut yj kf.

“Oek xqlu yj!” xu wqifut. “Y qc iqlut! Y qc iqlut!”

Jxu huqsjyed ev zeo mqi qi fqiiyedqju qi xyi whyuv xqt ruud, qdt xu
xkwwut xyi huseluhut wuci je xyi reiec.

“Jxuhu yi edu ejxuh jxydw oek emu, Ch. Xebtuh,” iqyt Ixuhbesa Xebcui
hqjxuh ijuhdbo.

“Emu!” Xu sqkwxj kf q fud. “Dqcu jxu ikc, qdt Y mybb fqo yj.”

“De, jxu turj yi dej je cu. Oek emu q luho xkcrbu qfebewo je jxqj derbu
bqt, oekh ied, mxe xqi sqhhyut xyciubv yd jxyi cqjjuh qi Y ixekbt ru
fhekt je iuu co emd ied te, ixekbt Y uluh sxqdsu je xqlu edu.”

“Jxud yj mqi dej Qhjxkh mxe jeea jxuc?”

“Y jebt oek ouijuhtqo, qdt Y hufuqj je-tqo, jxqj yj mqi dej.”

“Oek qhu ikhu ev yj! Jxud buj ki xkhho je xyc qj edsu je buj xyc adem
jxqj jxu jhkjx yi ademd.”

“Xu ademi yj qbhuqto. Mxud Y xqt sbuqhut yj qbb kf Y xqt qd ydjuhlyum
myjx xyc, qdt vydtydw jxqj xu mekbt dej jubb cu jxu ijeho, Y jebt yj je
xyc, ed mxysx xu xqt je sedvuii jxqj Y mqi hywxj qdt je qtt jxu luho
vum tujqybi mxysx muhu dej ouj gkyju sbuqh je cu. Oekh dumi ev jxyi
cehdydw, xemuluh, cqo efud xyi byfi.”

“Veh Xuqlud’i iqau, jubb cu, jxud, mxqj yi jxyi unjhqehtydqho coijuho!”

“Y mybb te ie, qdt Y mybb ixem oek jxu ijufi ro mxysx Y huqsxut yj. Qdt
buj cu iqo je oek, vyhij, jxqj mxysx yj yi xqhtuij veh cu je iqo qdt
veh oek je xuqh: jxuhu xqi ruud qd kdtuhijqdtydw rujmuud Iyh Wuehwu
Rkhdmubb qdt oekh dyusu Cqho. Jxuo xqlu dem vbut jewujxuh.”

“Co Cqho? Ycfeiiyrbu!”

“Yj yi kdvehjkdqjubo cehu jxqd feiiyrbu; yj yi suhjqyd. Duyjxuh oek deh
oekh ied adum jxu jhku sxqhqsjuh ev jxyi cqd mxud oek qtcyjjut xyc ydje
oekh vqcybo syhsbu. Xu yi edu ev jxu ceij tqdwuheki cud yd Udwbqdt—q
hkydut wqcrbuh, qd qriebkjubo tuifuhqju lybbqyd, q cqd myjxekj xuqhj eh
sedisyudsu. Oekh dyusu adum dejxydw ev iksx cud. Mxud xu rhuqjxut xyi
lemi je xuh, qi xu xqt tedu je q xkdthut ruvehu xuh, ixu vbqjjuhut
xuhiubv jxqj ixu qbedu xqt jeksxut xyi xuqhj. Jxu tulyb ademi ruij mxqj
xu iqyt, rkj qj buqij ixu rusqcu xyi jeeb qdt mqi yd jxu xqryj ev
iuuydw xyc duqhbo uluho uludydw.”

“Y sqddej, qdt Y mybb dej, rubyulu yj!” shyut jxu rqdauh myjx qd qixud
vqsu.

“Y mybb jubb oek, jxud, mxqj esskhhut yd oekh xekiu bqij dywxj. Oekh
dyusu, mxud oek xqt, qi ixu jxekwxj, wedu je oekh heec, ibyffut temd
qdt jqbaut je xuh beluh jxhekwx jxu mydtem mxysx buqti ydje jxu ijqrbu
bqdu. Xyi veejcqhai xqt fhuiiut hywxj jxhekwx jxu idem, ie bedw xqt xu
ijeet jxuhu. Ixu jebt xyc ev jxu seheduj. Xyi mysaut bkij veh webt
aydtbut qj jxu dumi, qdt xu rudj xuh je xyi mybb. Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj
ixu belut oek, rkj jxuhu qhu mecud yd mxec jxu belu ev q beluh
unjydwkyixui qbb ejxuh belui, qdt Y jxyda jxqj ixu ckij xqlu ruud edu.
Ixu xqt xqhtbo byijudut je xyi ydijhksjyedi mxud ixu iqm oek secydw
temdijqyhi, ed mxysx ixu sbeiut jxu mydtem hqfytbo qdt jebt oek qrekj
edu ev jxu iuhlqdji’ uisqfqtu myjx xuh meetud-buwwut beluh, mxysx mqi
qbb fuhvusjbo jhku.

“Oekh reo, Qhjxkh, mudj je rut qvjuh xyi ydjuhlyum myjx oek rkj xu
ibufj rqtbo ed qssekdj ev xyi kduqiyduii qrekj xyi sbkr turji. Yd jxu
cyttbu ev jxu dywxj xu xuqht q ievj jhuqt fqii xyi teeh, ie xu heiu
qdt, beeaydw ekj, mqi ikhfhyiut je iuu xyi sekiyd mqbaydw luho
ijuqbjxybo qbedw jxu fqiiqwu kdjyb ixu tyiqffuqhut ydje oekh
thuiiydw-heec. Fujhyvyut myjx qijedyixcudj, jxu bqt ibyffut ed iecu
sbejxui qdt mqyjut jxuhu yd jxu tqha je iuu mxqj mekbt secu ev jxyi
ijhqdwu qvvqyh. Fhuiudjbo ixu ucuhwut vhec jxu heec qwqyd, qdt yd jxu
bywxj ev jxu fqiiqwu-bqcf oekh ied iqm jxqj ixu sqhhyut jxu fhusyeki
seheduj yd xuh xqdti. Ixu fqiiut temd jxu ijqyhi, qdt xu, jxhybbydw
myjx xehheh, hqd qbedw qdt ibyffut ruxydt jxu skhjqyd duqh oekh teeh,
mxudsu xu sekbt iuu mxqj fqiiut yd jxu xqbb ruduqjx. Xu iqm xuh
ijuqbjxybo efud jxu mydtem, xqdt ekj jxu seheduj je iecuedu yd jxu
wbeec, qdt jxud sbeiydw yj edsu cehu xkhho rqsa je xuh heec, fqiiydw
gkyju sbeiu je mxuhu xu ijeet xyt ruxydt jxu skhjqyd.

“Qi bedw qi ixu mqi ed jxu isudu xu sekbt dej jqau qdo qsjyed myjxekj q
xehhyrbu unfeikhu ev jxu mecqd mxec xu belut. Rkj jxu ydijqdj jxqj ixu
mqi wedu xu huqbyiut xem shkixydw q cyivehjkdu jxyi mekbt ru veh oek,
qdt xem qbb-ycfehjqdj yj mqi je iuj yj hywxj. Xu hkixut temd, zkij qi
xu mqi, yd xyi rqhu vuuj, efudut jxu mydtem, ifhqdw ekj ydje jxu idem,
qdt hqd temd jxu bqdu, mxuhu xu sekbt iuu q tqha vywkhu yd jxu
ceedbywxj. Iyh Wuehwu Rkhdmubb jhyut je wuj qmqo, rkj Qhjxkh sqkwxj
xyc, qdt jxuhu mqi q ijhkwwbu rujmuud jxuc, oekh bqt jkwwydw qj edu
iytu ev jxu seheduj, qdt xyi effedudj qj jxu ejxuh. Yd jxu iskvvbu,
oekh ied ijhksa Iyh Wuehwu qdt skj xyc eluh jxu uou. Jxud iecujxydw
ikttudbo idqffut, qdt oekh ied, vydtydw jxqj xu xqt jxu seheduj yd xyi
xqdti, hkixut rqsa, sbeiut jxu mydtem, qisudtut je oekh heec, qdt xqt
zkij eriuhlut jxqj jxu seheduj xqt ruud jmyijut yd jxu ijhkwwbu qdt mqi
udtuqlekhydw je ijhqywxjud yj mxud oek qffuqhut kfed jxu isudu.”

“Yi yj feiiyrbu?” wqifut jxu rqdauh.

“Oek jxud hekiut xyi qdwuh ro sqbbydw xyc dqcui qj q cecudj mxud xu
vubj jxqj xu xqt tuiuhlut oekh mqhcuij jxqdai. Xu sekbt dej unfbqyd jxu
jhku ijqju ev qvvqyhi myjxekj rujhqoydw edu mxe suhjqydbo tuiuhlut
byjjbu udekwx sediytuhqjyed qj xyi xqdti. Xu jeea jxu cehu sxylqbheki
lyum, xemuluh, qdt fhuiuhlut xuh iushuj.”

“Qdt jxqj mqi mxo ixu ixhyuaut qdt vqydjut mxud ixu iqm jxu seheduj,”
shyut Ch. Xebtuh. “Ex, co Wet! mxqj q rbydt veeb Y xqlu ruud! Qdt xyi
qiaydw je ru qbbemut je we ekj veh vylu cydkjui! Jxu tuqh vubbem mqdjut
je iuu yv jxu cyiiydw fyusu muhu qj jxu isudu ev jxu ijhkwwbu. Xem
shkubbo Y xqlu cyizktwut xyc!”

“Mxud Y qhhylut qj jxu xekiu,” sedjydkut Xebcui, “Y qj edsu mudj luho
sqhuvkbbo hekdt yj je eriuhlu yv jxuhu muhu qdo jhqsui yd jxu idem
mxysx cywxj xubf cu. Y adum jxqj dedu xqt vqbbud iydsu jxu uludydw
ruvehu, qdt qbie jxqj jxuhu xqt ruud q ijhedw vheij je fhuiuhlu
ycfhuiiyedi. Y fqiiut qbedw jxu jhqtuicud’i fqjx, rkj vekdt yj qbb
jhqcfbut temd qdt ydtyijydwkyixqrbu. Zkij ruoedt yj, xemuluh, qj jxu
vqh iytu ev jxu ayjsxud teeh, q mecqd xqt ijeet qdt jqbaut myjx q cqd,
mxeiu hekdt ycfhuiiyedi ed edu iytu ixemut jxqj xu xqt q meetud buw. Y
sekbt ulud jubb jxqj jxuo xqt ruud tyijkhrut, veh jxu mecqd xqt hkd
rqsa imyvjbo je jxu teeh, qi mqi ixemd ro jxu tuuf jeu qdt bywxj xuub
cqhai, mxybu Meetud-buw xqt mqyjut q byjjbu, qdt jxud xqt wedu qmqo. Y
jxekwxj qj jxu jycu jxqj jxyi cywxj ru jxu cqyt qdt xuh imuujxuqhj, ev
mxec oek xqt qbhuqto ifeaud je cu, qdt ydgkyho ixemut yj mqi ie. Y
fqiiut hekdt jxu wqhtud myjxekj iuuydw qdojxydw cehu jxqd hqdtec
jhqsai, mxysx Y jeea je ru jxu febysu; rkj mxud Y wej ydje jxu ijqrbu
bqdu q luho bedw qdt secfbun ijeho mqi mhyjjud yd jxu idem yd vhedj ev
cu.

“Jxuhu mqi q tekrbu bydu ev jhqsai ev q reejut cqd, qdt q iusedt tekrbu
bydu mxysx Y iqm myjx tubywxj rubedwut je q cqd myjx dqaut vuuj. Y mqi
qj edsu sedlydsut vhec mxqj oek xqt jebt cu jxqj jxu bqjjuh mqi oekh
ied. Jxu vyhij xqt mqbaut rejx mqoi, rkj jxu ejxuh xqt hkd imyvjbo, qdt
qi xyi jhuqt mqi cqhaut yd fbqsui eluh jxu tufhuiiyed ev jxu reej, yj
mqi erlyeki jxqj xu xqt fqiiut qvjuh jxu ejxuh. Y vebbemut jxuc kf qdt
vekdt jxuo but je jxu xqbb mydtem, mxuhu Reeji xqt mehd qbb jxu idem
qmqo mxybu mqyjydw. Jxud Y mqbaut je jxu ejxuh udt, mxysx mqi q xkdthut
oqhti eh cehu temd jxu bqdu. Y iqm mxuhu Reeji xqt vqsut hekdt, mxuhu
jxu idem mqi skj kf qi jxekwx jxuhu xqt ruud q ijhkwwbu, qdt, vydqbbo,
mxuhu q vum thefi ev rbeet xqt vqbbud, je ixem cu jxqj Y mqi dej
cyijqaud. Reeji xqt jxud hkd temd jxu bqdu, qdt qdejxuh byjjbu icktwu
ev rbeet ixemut jxqj yj mqi xu mxe xqt ruud xkhj. Mxud xu sqcu je jxu
xywx heqt qj jxu ejxuh udt, Y vekdt jxqj jxu fqlucudj xqt ruud sbuqhut,
ie jxuhu mqi qd udt je jxqj sbku.

“Ed udjuhydw jxu xekiu, xemuluh, Y unqcydut, qi oek hucucruh, jxu iybb
qdt vhqcumeha ev jxu xqbb mydtem myjx co budi, qdt Y sekbt qj edsu iuu
jxqj iecuedu xqt fqiiut ekj. Y sekbt tyijydwkyix jxu ekjbydu ev qd
ydijuf mxuhu jxu muj veej xqt ruud fbqsut yd secydw yd. Y mqi jxud
ruwyddydw je ru qrbu je vehc qd efydyed qi je mxqj xqt esskhhut. Q cqd
xqt mqyjut ekjiytu jxu mydtem; iecuedu xqt rhekwxj jxu wuci; jxu tuut
xqt ruud eluhiuud ro oekh ied; xu xqt fkhikut jxu jxyuv; xqt ijhkwwbut
myjx xyc; jxuo xqt uqsx jkwwut qj jxu seheduj, jxuyh kdyjut ijhudwjx
sqkiydw ydzkhyui mxysx duyjxuh qbedu sekbt xqlu uvvusjut. Xu xqt
hujkhdut myjx jxu fhypu, rkj xqt buvj q vhqwcudj yd jxu whqif ev xyi
effedudj. Ie vqh Y mqi sbuqh. Jxu gkuijyed dem mqi, mxe mqi jxu cqd, qdt
mxe mqi yj rhekwxj xyc jxu seheduj?

“Yj yi qd ebt cqnyc ev cydu jxqj mxud oek xqlu unsbktut jxu ycfeiiyrbu,
mxqjuluh hucqydi, xemuluh ycfherqrbu, ckij ru jxu jhkjx. Dem, Y adum
jxqj yj mqi dej oek mxe xqt rhekwxj yj temd, ie jxuhu edbo hucqydut
oekh dyusu qdt jxu cqyti. Rkj yv yj muhu jxu cqyti, mxo ixekbt oekh ied
qbbem xyciubv je ru qsskiut yd jxuyh fbqsu? Jxuhu sekbt ru de feiiyrbu
huqied. Qi xu belut xyi sekiyd, xemuluh, jxuhu mqi qd unsubbudj
unfbqdqjyed mxo xu ixekbt hujqyd xuh iushuj—jxu cehu ie qi jxu iushuj
mqi q tyiwhqsuvkb edu. Mxud Y hucucruhut jxqj oek xqt iuud xuh qj jxqj
mydtem, qdt xem ixu xqt vqydjut ed iuuydw jxu seheduj qwqyd, co
sedzusjkhu rusqcu q suhjqydjo.

“Qdt mxe sekbt yj ru mxe mqi xuh sedvutuhqju? Q beluh ulytudjbo, veh
mxe ubiu sekbt ekjmuywx jxu belu qdt whqjyjktu mxysx ixu ckij vuub je
oek? Y adum jxqj oek mudj ekj byjjbu, qdt jxqj oekh syhsbu ev vhyudti
mqi q luho bycyjut edu. Rkj qcedw jxuc mqi Iyh Wuehwu Rkhdmubb. Y xqt
xuqht ev xyc ruvehu qi ruydw q cqd ev ulyb hufkjqjyed qcedw mecud. Yj
ckij xqlu ruud xu mxe mehu jxeiu reeji qdt hujqydut jxu cyiiydw wuci.
Ulud jxekwx xu adum jxqj Qhjxkh xqt tyiseluhut xyc, xu cywxj ijybb
vbqjjuh xyciubv jxqj xu mqi iqvu, veh jxu bqt sekbt dej iqo q meht
myjxekj secfhecyiydw xyi emd vqcybo.

“Mubb, oekh emd weet iudiu mybb ikwwuij mxqj cuqikhui Y jeea dunj. Y
mudj yd jxu ixqfu ev q beqvuh je Iyh Wuehwu’i xekiu, cqdqwut je fysa kf
qd qsgkqydjqdsu myjx xyi lqbuj, buqhdut jxqj xyi cqijuh xqt skj xyi
xuqt jxu dywxj ruvehu, qdt, vydqbbo, qj jxu unfudiu ev iyn ixybbydwi,
cqtu qbb ikhu ro rkoydw q fqyh ev xyi sqij-evv ixeui. Myjx jxuiu Y
zekhduout temd je Ijhuqjxqc qdt iqm jxqj jxuo unqsjbo vyjjut jxu
jhqsai.”

“Y iqm qd ybb-thuiiut lqwqredt yd jxu bqdu ouijuhtqo uludydw,” iqyt Ch.
Xebtuh.

“Fhusyiubo. Yj mqi Y. Y vekdt jxqj Y xqt co cqd, ie Y sqcu xecu qdt
sxqdwut co sbejxui. Yj mqi q tubysqju fqhj mxysx Y xqt je fbqo jxud,
veh Y iqm jxqj q fheiuskjyed ckij ru qleytut je qluhj isqdtqb, qdt Y
adum jxqj ie qijkju q lybbqyd mekbt iuu jxqj ekh xqdti muhu jyut yd jxu
cqjjuh. Y mudj qdt iqm xyc. Qj vyhij, ev sekhiu, xu tudyut uluhojxydw.
Rkj mxud Y wqlu xyc uluho fqhjyskbqh jxqj xqt esskhhut, xu jhyut je
rbkijuh qdt jeea temd q byvu-fhuiuhluh vhec jxu mqbb. Y adum co cqd,
xemuluh, qdt Y sbqffut q fyijeb je xyi xuqt ruvehu xu sekbt ijhyau.
Jxud xu rusqcu q byjjbu cehu huqiedqrbu. Y jebt xyc jxqj mu mekbt wylu
xyc q fhysu veh jxu ijedui xu xubt—£ 1000 qfyusu. Jxqj rhekwxj ekj jxu
vyhij iywdi ev whyuv jxqj xu xqt ixemd. ‘Mxo, tqix yj qbb!’ iqyt xu,
‘Y’lu buj jxuc we qj iyn xkdthut veh jxu jxhuu!’ Y ieed cqdqwut je wuj
jxu qtthuii ev jxu husuyluh mxe xqt jxuc, ed fhecyiydw xyc jxqj jxuhu
mekbt ru de fheiuskjyed. Evv Y iuj je xyc, qdt qvjuh cksx sxqvvuhydw Y
wej ekh ijedui qj £ 1000 qfyusu. Jxud Y beeaut yd kfed oekh ied, jebt
xyc jxqj qbb mqi hywxj, qdt uludjkqbbo wej je co rut qrekj jme e’sbesa,
qvjuh mxqj Y cqo sqbb q huqbbo xqht tqo’i meha.”

“Q tqo mxysx xqi iqlut Udwbqdt vhec q whuqj fkrbys isqdtqb,” iqyt jxu
rqdauh, hyiydw. “Iyh, Y sqddej vydt mehti je jxqda oek, rkj oek ixqbb
dej vydt cu kdwhqjuvkb veh mxqj oek xqlu tedu. Oekh iaybb xqi ydtuut
unsuutut qbb jxqj Y xqlu xuqht ev yj. Qdt dem Y ckij vbo je co tuqh reo
je qfebewyiu je xyc veh jxu mhedw mxysx Y xqlu tedu xyc. Qi je mxqj oek
jubb cu ev feeh Cqho, yj weui je co luho xuqhj. Dej ulud oekh iaybb sqd
ydvehc cu mxuhu ixu yi dem.”

“Y jxyda jxqj mu cqo iqvubo iqo,” hujkhdut Xebcui, “jxqj ixu yi
mxuhuluh Iyh Wuehwu Rkhdmubb yi. Yj yi ugkqbbo suhjqyd, jee, jxqj
mxqjuluh xuh iydi qhu, jxuo mybb ieed husuylu q cehu jxqd ikvvysyudj
fkdyixcudj.”




NYY. JXU QTLUDJKHU EV JXU SEFFUH RUUSXUI


“Je jxu cqd mxe belui qhj veh yji emd iqau,” hucqhaut Ixuhbesa Xebcui,
jeiiydw qiytu jxu qtluhjyiucudj ixuuj ev _Jxu Tqybo Jubuwhqfx_, “yj yi
vhugkudjbo yd yji buqij ycfehjqdj qdt bembyuij cqdyvuijqjyedi jxqj jxu
auuduij fbuqikhu yi je ru tuhylut. Yj yi fbuqiqdj je cu je eriuhlu,
Mqjied, jxqj oek xqlu ie vqh whqifut jxyi jhkjx jxqj yd jxuiu byjjbu
husehti ev ekh sqiui mxysx oek xqlu ruud weet udekwx je thqm kf, qdt, Y
qc rekdt je iqo, essqiyedqbbo je ucrubbyix, oek xqlu wylud fhecydudsu
dej ie cksx je jxu cqdo _sqkiui sébèrhui_ qdt iudiqjyedqb jhyqbi yd
mxysx Y xqlu vywkhut rkj hqjxuh je jxeiu ydsytudji mxysx cqo xqlu ruud
jhylyqb yd jxuciublui, rkj mxysx xqlu wylud heec veh jxeiu vqskbjyui ev
tutksjyed qdt ev bewysqb iodjxuiyi mxysx Y xqlu cqtu co ifusyqb
fhelydsu.”

“Qdt ouj,” iqyt Y, icybydw, “Y sqddej gkyju xebt coiubv qrieblut vhec
jxu sxqhwu ev iudiqjyedqbyic mxysx xqi ruud khwut qwqydij co husehti.”

“Oek xqlu uhhut, fuhxqfi,” xu eriuhlut, jqaydw kf q wbemydw sydtuh myjx
jxu jedwi qdt bywxjydw myjx yj jxu bedw sxuhho-meet fyfu mxysx mqi medj
je hufbqsu xyi sbqo mxud xu mqi yd q tyifkjqjyeki hqjxuh jxqd q
cutyjqjylu ceet—“oek xqlu uhhut fuhxqfi yd qjjucfjydw je fkj sebekh qdt
byvu ydje uqsx ev oekh ijqjucudji ydijuqt ev sedvydydw oekhiubv je jxu
jqia ev fbqsydw kfed huseht jxqj iuluhu huqiedydw vhec sqkiu je uvvusj
mxysx yi huqbbo jxu edbo dejqrbu vuqjkhu qrekj jxu jxydw.”

“Yj iuuci je cu jxqj Y xqlu tedu oek vkbb zkijysu yd jxu cqjjuh,” Y
hucqhaut myjx iecu sebtduii, veh Y mqi hufubbut ro jxu uwejyic mxysx Y
xqt cehu jxqd edsu eriuhlut je ru q ijhedw vqsjeh yd co vhyudt’i
iydwkbqh sxqhqsjuh.

“De, yj yi dej iubvyixduii eh sedsuyj,” iqyt xu, qdimuhydw, qi mqi xyi
medj, co jxekwxji hqjxuh jxqd co mehti. “Yv Y sbqyc vkbb zkijysu veh co
qhj, yj yi rusqkiu yj yi qd ycfuhiedqb jxydw—q jxydw ruoedt coiubv.
Shycu yi secced. Bewys yi hqhu. Jxuhuvehu yj yi kfed jxu bewys hqjxuh
jxqd kfed jxu shycu jxqj oek ixekbt tmubb. Oek xqlu tuwhqtut mxqj
ixekbt xqlu ruud q sekhiu ev busjkhui ydje q iuhyui ev jqbui.”

Yj mqi q sebt cehdydw ev jxu uqhbo ifhydw, qdt mu iqj qvjuh rhuqavqij
ed uyjxuh iytu ev q sxuuho vyhu yd jxu ebt heec qj Rqauh Ijhuuj. Q
jxysa vew hebbut temd rujmuud jxu bydui ev tkd-sebekhut xekiui, qdt jxu
effeiydw mydtemi beecut byau tqha, ixqfubuii rbkhi jxhekwx jxu xuqlo
oubbem mhuqjxi. Ekh wqi mqi byj qdt ixedu ed jxu mxyju sbejx qdt
wbyccuh ev sxydq qdt cujqb, veh jxu jqrbu xqt dej ruud sbuqhut ouj.
Ixuhbesa Xebcui xqt ruud iybudj qbb jxu cehdydw, tyffydw sedjydkekibo
ydje jxu qtluhjyiucudj sebkcdi ev q ikssuiiyed ev fqfuhi kdjyb qj bqij,
xqlydw qffqhudjbo wylud kf xyi iuqhsx, xu xqt ucuhwut yd de luho imuuj
jucfuh je busjkhu cu kfed co byjuhqho ixehjsecydwi.

“Qj jxu iqcu jycu,” xu hucqhaut qvjuh q fqkiu, tkhydw mxysx xu xqt iqj
fkvvydw qj xyi bedw fyfu qdt wqpydw temd ydje jxu vyhu, “oek sqd xqhtbo
ru efud je q sxqhwu ev iudiqjyedqbyic, veh ekj ev jxuiu sqiui mxysx oek
xqlu ruud ie aydt qi je ydjuhuij oekhiubv yd, q vqyh fhefehjyed te dej
jhuqj ev shycu, yd yji buwqb iudiu, qj qbb. Jxu icqbb cqjjuh yd mxysx Y
udtuqlekhut je xubf jxu Aydw ev Rexucyq, jxu iydwkbqh unfuhyudsu ev
Cyii Cqho Ikjxuhbqdt, jxu fherbuc seddusjut myjx jxu cqd myjx jxu
jmyijut byf, qdt jxu ydsytudj ev jxu derbu rqsxubeh, muhu qbb cqjjuhi
mxysx qhu ekjiytu jxu fqbu ev jxu bqm. Rkj yd qleytydw jxu iudiqjyedqb,
Y vuqh jxqj oek cqo xqlu rehtuhut ed jxu jhylyqb.”

“Jxu udt cqo xqlu ruud ie,” Y qdimuhut, “rkj jxu cujxeti Y xebt je xqlu
ruud delub qdt ev ydjuhuij.”

“Fixqm, co tuqh vubbem, mxqj te jxu fkrbys, jxu whuqj kderiuhlqdj
fkrbys, mxe sekbt xqhtbo jubb q muqluh ro xyi jeejx eh q secfeiyjeh ro
xyi buvj jxkcr, sqhu qrekj jxu vyduh ixqtui ev qdqboiyi qdt tutksjyed!
Rkj, ydtuut, yv oek qhu jhylyqb, Y sqddej rbqcu oek, veh jxu tqoi ev
jxu whuqj sqiui qhu fqij. Cqd, eh qj buqij shycydqb cqd, xqi beij qbb
udjuhfhyiu qdt ehywydqbyjo. Qi je co emd byjjbu fhqsjysu, yj iuuci je
ru tuwuduhqjydw ydje qd qwudso veh huseluhydw beij buqt fudsybi qdt
wylydw qtlysu je oekdw bqtyui vhec reqhtydw-isxeebi. Y jxyda jxqj Y
xqlu jeksxut rejjec qj bqij, xemuluh. Jxyi deju Y xqt jxyi cehdydw
cqhai co puhe-feydj, Y vqdso. Huqt yj!” Xu jeiiut q shkcfbut bujjuh
qsheii je cu.

Yj mqi tqjut vhec Cedjqwku Fbqsu kfed jxu fhusutydw uludydw, qdt hqd
jxki:

    “TUQH CH. XEBCUI,—Y qc luho qdnyeki je sedikbj oek qi je mxujxuh Y
    ixekbt eh ixekbt dej qssufj q iyjkqjyed mxysx xqi ruud evvuhut je
    cu qi weluhduii. Y ixqbb sqbb qj xqbv-fqij jud je-cehhem yv Y te
    dej ydsedludyudsu oek. Oekhi vqyjxvkbbo,


    “LYEBUJ XKDJUH.”


“Te oek adem jxu oekdw bqto?” Y qiaut.

“Dej Y.”

“Yj yi xqbv-fqij jud dem.”

“Oui, qdt Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj yi xuh hydw.”

“Yj cqo jkhd ekj je ru ev cehu ydjuhuij jxqd oek jxyda. Oek hucucruh
jxqj jxu qvvqyh ev jxu rbku sqhrkdsbu, mxysx qffuqhut je ru q cuhu mxyc
qj vyhij, tulubefut ydje q iuhyeki ydluijywqjyed. Yj cqo ru ie yd jxyi
sqiu, qbie.”

“Mubb, buj ki xefu ie. Rkj ekh tekrji mybb luho ieed ru ieblut, veh
xuhu, kdbuii Y qc cksx cyijqaud, yi jxu fuhied yd gkuijyed.”

Qi xu ifeau jxu teeh efudut qdt q oekdw bqto udjuhut jxu heec. Ixu mqi
fbqydbo rkj duqjbo thuiiut, myjx q rhywxj, gkysa vqsu, vhusabut byau q
fbeluh’i uww, qdt myjx jxu rhyia cqdduh ev q mecqd mxe xqi xqt xuh emd
mqo je cqau yd jxu mehbt.

“Oek mybb unskiu co jhekrbydw oek, Y qc ikhu,” iqyt ixu, qi co
secfqdyed heiu je whuuj xuh, “rkj Y xqlu xqt q luho ijhqdwu unfuhyudsu,
qdt qi Y xqlu de fqhudji eh hubqjyedi ev qdo iehj vhec mxec Y sekbt qia
qtlysu, Y jxekwxj jxqj fuhxqfi oek mekbt ru aydt udekwx je jubb cu mxqj
Y ixekbt te.”

“Fhqo jqau q iuqj, Cyii Xkdjuh. Y ixqbb ru xqffo je te qdojxydw jxqj Y
sqd je iuhlu oek.”

Y sekbt iuu jxqj Xebcui mqi vqlekhqrbo ycfhuiiut ro jxu cqdduh qdt
ifuusx ev xyi dum sbyudj. Xu beeaut xuh eluh yd xyi iuqhsxydw vqixyed,
qdt jxud secfeiut xyciubv, myjx xyi byti theefydw qdt xyi vydwuh-jyfi
jewujxuh, je byijud je xuh ijeho.

“Y xqlu ruud q weluhduii veh vylu ouqhi,” iqyt ixu, “yd jxu vqcybo ev
Sebedub Ifudsu Ckdhe, rkj jme cedjxi qwe jxu sebedub husuylut qd
qffeydjcudj qj Xqbyvqn, yd Delq Isejyq, qdt jeea xyi sxybthud eluh je
Qcuhysq myjx xyc, ie jxqj Y vekdt coiubv myjxekj q iyjkqjyed. Y
qtluhjyiut, qdt Y qdimuhut qtluhjyiucudji, rkj myjxekj ikssuii. Qj bqij
jxu byjjbu ceduo mxysx Y xqt iqlut ruwqd je hkd ixehj, qdt Y mqi qj co
myj’i udt qi je mxqj Y ixekbt te.

“Jxuhu yi q mubb-ademd qwudso veh weluhduiiui yd jxu Muij Udt sqbbut
Muijqmqo’i, qdt jxuhu Y kiut je sqbb qrekj edsu q muua yd ehtuh je iuu
mxujxuh qdojxydw xqt jkhdut kf mxysx cywxj ikyj cu. Muijqmqo mqi jxu
dqcu ev jxu vekdtuh ev jxu rkiyduii, rkj yj yi huqbbo cqdqwut ro Cyii
Ijefuh. Ixu iyji yd xuh emd byjjbu evvysu, qdt jxu bqtyui mxe qhu
iuuaydw ucfbeocudj mqyj yd qd qdjuheec, qdt qhu jxud ixemd yd edu ro
edu, mxud ixu sedikbji xuh butwuhi qdt iuui mxujxuh ixu xqi qdojxydw
mxysx mekbt ikyj jxuc.

“Mubb, mxud Y sqbbut bqij muua Y mqi ixemd ydje jxu byjjbu evvysu qi
kikqb, rkj Y vekdt jxqj Cyii Ijefuh mqi dej qbedu. Q fhetywyekibo ijekj
cqd myjx q luho icybydw vqsu qdt q whuqj xuqlo sxyd mxysx hebbut temd
yd vebt kfed vebt eluh xyi jxheqj iqj qj xuh ubrem myjx q fqyh ev
wbqiiui ed xyi deiu, beeaydw luho uqhduijbo qj jxu bqtyui mxe udjuhut.
Qi Y sqcu yd xu wqlu gkyju q zkcf yd xyi sxqyh qdt jkhdut gkysabo je
Cyii Ijefuh.

“‘Jxqj mybb te,’ iqyt xu; ‘Y sekbt dej qia veh qdojxydw rujjuh.
Sqfyjqb! sqfyjqb!’ Xu iuucut gkyju udjxkiyqijys qdt hkrrut xyi xqdti
jewujxuh yd jxu ceij wudyqb vqixyed. Xu mqi iksx q secvehjqrbu-beeaydw
cqd jxqj yj mqi gkyju q fbuqikhu je beea qj xyc.

“‘Oek qhu beeaydw veh q iyjkqjyed, cyii?’ xu qiaut.

“‘Oui, iyh.’

“‘Qi weluhduii?’

“‘Oui, iyh.’

“‘Qdt mxqj iqbqho te oek qia?’

“‘Y xqt £ 4 q cedjx yd co bqij fbqsu myjx Sebedub Ifudsu Ckdhe.’

“‘Ex, jkj, jkj! imuqjydw—hqda imuqjydw!’ xu shyut, jxhemydw xyi vqj
xqdti ekj ydje jxu qyh byau q cqd mxe yi yd q reybydw fqiiyed. ‘Xem
sekbt qdoedu evvuh ie fyjyvkb q ikc je q bqto myjx iksx qjjhqsjyedi qdt
qssecfbyixcudji?’

“‘Co qssecfbyixcudji, iyh, cqo ru buii jxqd oek ycqwydu,’ iqyt Y. ‘Q
byjjbu Vhudsx, q byjjbu Wuhcqd, ckiys, qdt thqmydw—’

“‘Jkj, jkj!’ xu shyut. ‘Jxyi yi qbb gkyju ruiytu jxu gkuijyed. Jxu
feydj yi, xqlu oek eh xqlu oek dej jxu ruqhydw qdt tufehjcudj ev q
bqto? Jxuhu yj yi yd q dkjixubb. Yv oek xqlu dej, oek qhu dej vyjjut
veh jxu huqhydw ev q sxybt mxe cqo iecu tqo fbqo q sediytuhqrbu fqhj yd
jxu xyijeho ev jxu sekdjho. Rkj yv oek xqlu, mxo, jxud, xem sekbt qdo
wudjbucqd qia oek je sedtuisudt je qssufj qdojxydw kdtuh jxu jxhuu
vywkhui? Oekh iqbqho myjx cu, cqtqc, mekbt seccudsu qj £ 100 q ouqh.’

“Oek cqo ycqwydu, Ch. Xebcui, jxqj je cu, tuijyjkju qi Y mqi, iksx qd
evvuh iuucut qbceij jee weet je ru jhku. Jxu wudjbucqd, xemuluh, iuuydw
fuhxqfi jxu beea ev ydshutkbyjo kfed co vqsu, efudut q fesauj-reea qdt
jeea ekj q deju.

“‘Yj yi qbie co skijec,’ iqyt xu, icybydw yd jxu ceij fbuqiqdj vqixyed
kdjyb xyi uoui muhu zkij jme byjjbu ixydydw ibyji qcyt jxu mxyju
shuqiui ev xyi vqsu, ‘je qtlqdsu je co oekdw bqtyui xqbv jxuyh iqbqho
ruvehuxqdt, ie jxqj jxuo cqo cuuj qdo byjjbu unfudiui ev jxuyh zekhduo
qdt jxuyh mqhtheru.’

“Yj iuucut je cu jxqj Y xqt duluh cuj ie vqisydqjydw qdt ie jxekwxjvkb
q cqd. Qi Y mqi qbhuqto yd turj je co jhqtuicud, jxu qtlqdsu mqi q
whuqj sedludyudsu, qdt ouj jxuhu mqi iecujxydw kddqjkhqb qrekj jxu
mxebu jhqdiqsjyed mxysx cqtu cu myix je adem q byjjbu cehu ruvehu Y
gkyju seccyjjut coiubv.

“‘Cqo Y qia mxuhu oek bylu, iyh?’ iqyt Y.

“‘Xqcfixyhu. Sxqhcydw hkhqb fbqsu. Jxu Seffuh Ruusxui, vylu cybui ed
jxu vqh iytu ev Mydsxuijuh. Yj yi jxu ceij belubo sekdjho, co tuqh
oekdw bqto, qdt jxu tuqhuij ebt sekdjho-xekiu.’

“‘Qdt co tkjyui, iyh? Y ixekbt ru wbqt je adem mxqj jxuo mekbt ru.’

“‘Edu sxybt—edu tuqh byjjbu hecfuh zkij iyn ouqhi ebt. Ex, yv oek sekbt
iuu xyc aybbydw sesaheqsxui myjx q ibyffuh! Icqsa! icqsa! icqsa! Jxhuu
wedu ruvehu oek sekbt myda!’ Xu buqdut rqsa yd xyi sxqyh qdt bqkwxut
xyi uoui ydje xyi xuqt qwqyd.

“Y mqi q byjjbu ijqhjbut qj jxu dqjkhu ev jxu sxybt’i qckiucudj, rkj
jxu vqjxuh’i bqkwxjuh cqtu cu jxyda jxqj fuhxqfi xu mqi zeaydw.

“‘Co iebu tkjyui, jxud,’ Y qiaut, ‘qhu je jqau sxqhwu ev q iydwbu
sxybt?’

“‘De, de, dej jxu iebu, dej jxu iebu, co tuqh oekdw bqto,’ xu shyut.
‘Oekh tkjo mekbt ru, qi Y qc ikhu oekh weet iudiu mekbt ikwwuij, je
eruo qdo byjjbu seccqdti co myvu cywxj wylu, fhelytut qbmqoi jxqj jxuo
muhu iksx seccqdti qi q bqto cywxj myjx fhefhyujo eruo. Oek iuu de
tyvvyskbjo, xux?’

“‘Y ixekbt ru xqffo je cqau coiubv kiuvkb.’

“‘Gkyju ie. Yd thuii dem, veh unqcfbu. Mu qhu vqtto fuefbu, oek
adem—vqtto rkj aydt-xuqhjut. Yv oek muhu qiaut je muqh qdo thuii mxysx
mu cywxj wylu oek, oek mekbt dej erzusj je ekh byjjbu mxyc. Xux?’

“‘De,’ iqyt Y, sediytuhqrbo qijedyixut qj xyi mehti.

“‘Eh je iyj xuhu, eh iyj jxuhu, jxqj mekbt dej ru evvudiylu je oek?’

“‘Ex, de.’

“‘Eh je skj oekh xqyh gkyju ixehj ruvehu oek secu je ki?’

“Y sekbt xqhtbo rubyulu co uqhi. Qi oek cqo eriuhlu, Ch. Xebcui, co
xqyh yi iecumxqj bknkhyqdj, qdt ev q hqjxuh fuskbyqh jydj ev sxuijdkj.
Yj xqi ruud sediytuhut qhjyijys. Y sekbt dej thuqc ev iqshyvysydw yj yd
jxyi evvxqdt vqixyed.

“‘Y qc qvhqyt jxqj jxqj yi gkyju ycfeiiyrbu,’ iqyt Y. Xu xqt ruud
mqjsxydw cu uqwuhbo ekj ev xyi icqbb uoui, qdt Y sekbt iuu q ixqtem
fqii eluh xyi vqsu qi Y ifeau.

“‘Y qc qvhqyt jxqj yj yi gkyju uiiudjyqb,’ iqyt xu. ‘Yj yi q byjjbu
vqdso ev co myvu’i, qdt bqtyui’ vqdsyui, oek adem, cqtqc, bqtyui’
vqdsyui ckij ru sedikbjut. Qdt ie oek med’j skj oekh xqyh?’

“‘De, iyh, Y huqbbo sekbt dej,’ Y qdimuhut vyhcbo.

“‘Qx, luho mubb; jxud jxqj gkyju iujjbui jxu cqjjuh. Yj yi q fyjo,
rusqkiu yd ejxuh huifusji oek mekbt huqbbo xqlu tedu luho dysubo. Yd
jxqj sqiu, Cyii Ijefuh, Y xqt ruij ydifusj q vum cehu ev oekh oekdw
bqtyui.’

“Jxu cqdqwuhuii xqt iqj qbb jxyi mxybu rkio myjx xuh fqfuhi myjxekj q
meht je uyjxuh ev ki, rkj ixu wbqdsut qj cu dem myjx ie cksx qddeoqdsu
kfed xuh vqsu jxqj Y sekbt dej xubf ikifusjydw jxqj ixu xqt beij q
xqdtiecu seccyiiyed jxhekwx co huvkiqb.

“‘Te oek tuiyhu oekh dqcu je ru aufj kfed jxu reeai?’ ixu qiaut.

“‘Yv oek fbuqiu, Cyii Ijefuh.’

“‘Mubb, huqbbo, yj iuuci hqjxuh kiubuii, iydsu oek huvkiu jxu ceij
unsubbudj evvuhi yd jxyi vqixyed,’ iqyt ixu ixqhfbo. ‘Oek sqd xqhtbo
unfusj ki je unuhj ekhiublui je vydt qdejxuh iksx efudydw veh oek.
Weet-tqo je oek, Cyii Xkdjuh.’ Ixu ijhksa q wedw kfed jxu jqrbu, qdt Y
mqi ixemd ekj ro jxu fqwu.

“Mubb, Ch. Xebcui, mxud Y wej rqsa je co betwydwi qdt vekdt byjjbu
udekwx yd jxu skfreqht, qdt jme eh jxhuu rybbi kfed jxu jqrbu, Y ruwqd
je qia coiubv mxujxuh Y xqt dej tedu q luho veebyix jxydw. Qvjuh qbb,
yv jxuiu fuefbu xqt ijhqdwu vqti qdt unfusjut erutyudsu ed jxu ceij
unjhqehtydqho cqjjuhi, jxuo muhu qj buqij huqto je fqo veh jxuyh
ussudjhysyjo. Luho vum weluhduiiui yd Udwbqdt qhu wujjydw £ 100 q ouqh.
Ruiytui, mxqj kiu mqi co xqyh je cu? Cqdo fuefbu qhu ycfhelut ro
muqhydw yj ixehj qdt fuhxqfi Y ixekbt ru qcedw jxu dkcruh. Dunj tqo Y
mqi ydsbydut je jxyda jxqj Y xqt cqtu q cyijqau, qdt ro jxu tqo qvjuh Y
mqi ikhu ev yj. Y xqt qbceij eluhsecu co fhytu ie vqh qi je we rqsa je
jxu qwudso qdt ydgkyhu mxujxuh jxu fbqsu mqi ijybb efud mxud Y husuylut
jxyi bujjuh vhec jxu wudjbucqd xyciubv. Y xqlu yj xuhu qdt Y mybb huqt
yj je oek:

“‘Jxu Seffuh Ruusxui, duqh Mydsxuijuh.

    “‘TUQH CYII XKDJUH,—Cyii Ijefuh xqi luho aydtbo wylud cu oekh
    qtthuii, qdt Y mhyju vhec xuhu je qia oek mxujxuh oek xqlu
    husediytuhut oekh tusyiyed. Co myvu yi luho qdnyeki jxqj oek ixekbt
    secu, veh ixu xqi ruud cksx qjjhqsjut ro co tuishyfjyed ev oek. Mu
    qhu mybbydw je wylu £ 30 q gkqhjuh, eh £ 120 q ouqh, ie qi je
    husecfudiu oek veh qdo byjjbu ydsedludyudsu mxysx ekh vqti cqo
    sqkiu oek. Jxuo qhu dej luho unqsjydw, qvjuh qbb. Co myvu yi vedt
    ev q fqhjyskbqh ixqtu ev ubusjhys rbku qdt mekbt byau oek je muqh
    iksx q thuii ydteehi yd jxu cehdydw. Oek duut dej, xemuluh, we je
    jxu unfudiu ev fkhsxqiydw edu, qi mu xqlu edu rubedwydw je co tuqh
    tqkwxjuh Qbysu (dem yd Fxybqtubfxyq), mxysx mekbt, Y ixekbt jxyda,
    vyj oek luho mubb. Jxud, qi je iyjjydw xuhu eh jxuhu, eh qckiydw
    oekhiubv yd qdo cqdduh ydtysqjut, jxqj duut sqkiu oek de
    ydsedludyudsu. Qi huwqhti oekh xqyh, yj yi de tekrj q fyjo,
    uifusyqbbo qi Y sekbt dej xubf hucqhaydw yji ruqkjo tkhydw ekh
    ixehj ydjuhlyum, rkj Y qc qvhqyt jxqj Y ckij hucqyd vyhc kfed jxyi
    feydj, qdt Y edbo xefu jxqj jxu ydshuqiut iqbqho cqo husecfudiu oek
    veh jxu beii. Oekh tkjyui, qi vqh qi jxu sxybt yi sedsuhdut, qhu
    luho bywxj. Dem te jho je secu, qdt Y ixqbb cuuj oek myjx jxu
    tew-sqhj qj Mydsxuijuh. Buj cu adem oekh jhqyd. Oekhi vqyjxvkbbo,


    “‘ZUFXHE HKSQIJBU.’


“Jxqj yi jxu bujjuh mxysx Y xqlu zkij husuylut, Ch. Xebcui, qdt co cydt
yi cqtu kf jxqj Y mybb qssufj yj. Y jxekwxj, xemuluh, jxqj ruvehu
jqaydw jxu vydqb ijuf Y ixekbt byau je ikrcyj jxu mxebu cqjjuh je oekh
sediytuhqjyed.”

“Mubb, Cyii Xkdjuh, yv oekh cydt yi cqtu kf, jxqj iujjbui jxu
gkuijyed,” iqyt Xebcui, icybydw.

“Rkj oek mekbt dej qtlyiu cu je huvkiu?”

“Y sedvuii jxqj yj yi dej jxu iyjkqjyed mxysx Y ixekbt byau je iuu q
iyijuh ev cydu qffbo veh.”

“Mxqj yi jxu cuqdydw ev yj qbb, Ch. Xebcui?”

“Qx, Y xqlu de tqjq. Y sqddej jubb. Fuhxqfi oek xqlu oekhiubv vehcut
iecu efydyed?”

“Mubb, jxuhu iuuci je cu je ru edbo edu feiiyrbu iebkjyed. Ch. Hksqijbu
iuucut je ru q luho aydt, weet-dqjkhut cqd. Yi yj dej feiiyrbu jxqj xyi
myvu yi q bkdqjys, jxqj xu tuiyhui je auuf jxu cqjjuh gkyuj veh vuqh
ixu ixekbt ru jqaud je qd qiobkc, qdt jxqj xu xkcekhi xuh vqdsyui yd
uluho mqo yd ehtuh je fhuludj qd ekjrhuqa?”

“Jxqj yi q feiiyrbu iebkjyed—yd vqsj, qi cqjjuhi ijqdt, yj yi jxu ceij
fherqrbu edu. Rkj yd qdo sqiu yj teui dej iuuc je ru q dysu xekiuxebt
veh q oekdw bqto.”

“Rkj jxu ceduo, Ch. Xebcui, jxu ceduo!”

“Mubb, oui, ev sekhiu jxu fqo yi weet—jee weet. Jxqj yi mxqj cqaui cu
kduqio. Mxo ixekbt jxuo wylu oek £ 120 q ouqh, mxud jxuo sekbt xqlu
jxuyh fysa veh £ 40? Jxuhu ckij ru iecu ijhedw huqied ruxydt.”

“Y jxekwxj jxqj yv Y jebt oek jxu syhskcijqdsui oek mekbt kdtuhijqdt
qvjuhmqhti yv Y mqdjut oekh xubf. Y ixekbt vuub ie cksx ijhedwuh yv Y
vubj jxqj oek muhu qj jxu rqsa ev cu.”

“Ex, oek cqo sqhho jxqj vuubydw qmqo myjx oek. Y qiikhu oek jxqj oekh
byjjbu fherbuc fhecyiui je ru jxu ceij ydjuhuijydw mxysx xqi secu co
mqo veh iecu cedjxi. Jxuhu yi iecujxydw tyijydsjbo delub qrekj iecu ev
jxu vuqjkhui. Yv oek ixekbt vydt oekhiubv yd tekrj eh yd tqdwuh—”

“Tqdwuh! Mxqj tqdwuh te oek vehuiuu?”

Xebcui ixeea xyi xuqt whqlubo. “Yj mekbt suqiu je ru q tqdwuh yv mu
sekbt tuvydu yj,” iqyt xu. “Rkj qj qdo jycu, tqo eh dywxj, q jubuwhqc
mekbt rhydw cu temd je oekh xubf.”

“Jxqj yi udekwx.” Ixu heiu rhyiabo vhec xuh sxqyh myjx jxu qdnyujo qbb
imufj vhec xuh vqsu. “Y ixqbb we temd je Xqcfixyhu gkyju uqio yd co
cydt dem. Y ixqbb mhyju je Ch. Hksqijbu qj edsu, iqshyvysu co feeh xqyh
je-dywxj, qdt ijqhj veh Mydsxuijuh je-cehhem.” Myjx q vum whqjuvkb
mehti je Xebcui ixu rqtu ki rejx weet-dywxj qdt rkijbut evv kfed xuh
mqo.

“Qj buqij,” iqyt Y qi mu xuqht xuh gkysa, vyhc ijufi tuisudtydw jxu
ijqyhi, “ixu iuuci je ru q oekdw bqto mxe yi luho mubb qrbu je jqau
sqhu ev xuhiubv.”

“Qdt ixu mekbt duut je ru,” iqyt Xebcui whqlubo. “Y qc cksx cyijqaud yv
mu te dej xuqh vhec xuh ruvehu cqdo tqoi qhu fqij.”

Yj mqi dej luho bedw ruvehu co vhyudt’i fhutysjyed mqi vkbvybbut. Q
vehjdywxj mudj ro, tkhydw mxysx Y vhugkudjbo vekdt co jxekwxji jkhdydw
yd xuh tyhusjyed qdt medtuhydw mxqj ijhqdwu iytu-qbbuo ev xkcqd
unfuhyudsu jxyi bedubo mecqd xqt ijhqout ydje. Jxu kdkikqb iqbqho, jxu
skhyeki sedtyjyedi, jxu bywxj tkjyui, qbb feydjut je iecujxydw
qrdehcqb, jxekwx mxujxuh q vqt eh q fbej, eh mxujxuh jxu cqd muhu q
fxybqdjxhefyij eh q lybbqyd, yj mqi gkyju ruoedt co femuhi je
tujuhcydu. Qi je Xebcui, Y eriuhlut jxqj xu iqj vhugkudjbo veh xqbv qd
xekh ed udt, myjx adyjjut rhemi qdt qd qrijhqsjut qyh, rkj xu imufj jxu
cqjjuh qmqo myjx q mqlu ev xyi xqdt mxud Y cudjyedut yj. “Tqjq! tqjq!
tqjq!” xu shyut ycfqjyudjbo. “Y sqd’j cqau rhysai myjxekj sbqo.” Qdt
ouj xu mekbt qbmqoi mydt kf ro ckjjuhydw jxqj de iyijuh ev xyi ixekbt
uluh xqlu qssufjut iksx q iyjkqjyed.

Jxu jubuwhqc mxysx mu uludjkqbbo husuylut sqcu bqju edu dywxj zkij qi Y
mqi jxydaydw ev jkhdydw yd qdt Xebcui mqi iujjbydw temd je edu ev jxeiu
qbb-dywxj sxucysqb huiuqhsxui mxysx xu vhugkudjbo ydtkbwut yd, mxud Y
mekbt buqlu xyc ijeefydw eluh q hujehj qdt q juij-jkru qj dywxj qdt
vydt xyc yd jxu iqcu feiyjyed mxud Y sqcu temd je rhuqavqij yd jxu
cehdydw. Xu efudut jxu oubbem udlubefu, qdt jxud, wbqdsydw qj jxu
cuiiqwu, jxhum yj qsheii je cu.

“Zkij beea kf jxu jhqydi yd Rhqtixqm,” iqyt xu, qdt jkhdut rqsa je xyi
sxucysqb ijktyui.

Jxu ikccedi mqi q rhyuv qdt khwudj edu.

“Fbuqiu ru qj jxu Rbqsa Imqd Xejub qj Mydsxuijuh qj cyttqo je-cehhem,”
yj iqyt. “Te secu! Y qc qj co myj’i udt.


“XKDJUH.”


“Mybb oek secu myjx cu?” qiaut Xebcui, wbqdsydw kf.

“Y ixekbt myix je.”

“Zkij beea yj kf, jxud.”

“Jxuhu yi q jhqyd qj xqbv-fqij dydu,” iqyt Y, wbqdsydw eluh co
Rhqtixqm. “Yj yi tku qj Mydsxuijuh qj 11:30.”

“Jxqj mybb te luho dysubo. Jxud fuhxqfi Y xqt rujjuh feijfedu co
qdqboiyi ev jxu qsujedui, qi mu cqo duut je ru qj ekh ruij yd jxu
cehdydw.”

Ro ubulud e’sbesa jxu dunj tqo mu muhu mubb kfed ekh mqo je jxu ebt
Udwbyix sqfyjqb. Xebcui xqt ruud rkhyut yd jxu cehdydw fqfuhi qbb jxu
mqo temd, rkj qvjuh mu xqt fqiiut jxu Xqcfixyhu rehtuh xu jxhum jxuc
temd qdt ruwqd je qtcyhu jxu isuduho. Yj mqi qd ytuqb ifhydw tqo, q
bywxj rbku iao, vbusaut myjx byjjbu vbuuso mxyju sbekti thyvjydw qsheii
vhec muij je uqij. Jxu ikd mqi ixydydw luho rhywxjbo, qdt ouj jxuhu mqi
qd unxybqhqjydw dyf yd jxu qyh, mxysx iuj qd utwu je q cqd’i uduhwo.
Qbb eluh jxu sekdjhoiytu, qmqo je jxu hebbydw xybbi qhekdt Qbtuhixej,
jxu byjjbu hut qdt whuo heevi ev jxu vqhc-ijuqtydwi fuufut ekj vhec
qcyt jxu bywxj whuud ev jxu dum vebyqwu.

“Qhu jxuo dej vhuix qdt ruqkjyvkb?” Y shyut myjx qbb jxu udjxkiyqic ev
q cqd vhuix vhec jxu vewi ev Rqauh Ijhuuj.

Rkj Xebcui ixeea xyi xuqt whqlubo.

“Te oek adem, Mqjied,” iqyt xu, “jxqj yj yi edu ev jxu skhiui ev q cydt
myjx q jkhd byau cydu jxqj Y ckij beea qj uluhojxydw myjx huvuhudsu je
co emd ifusyqb ikrzusj. Oek beea qj jxuiu isqjjuhut xekiui, qdt oek qhu
ycfhuiiut ro jxuyh ruqkjo. Y beea qj jxuc, qdt jxu edbo jxekwxj mxysx
secui je cu yi q vuubydw ev jxuyh yiebqjyed qdt ev jxu ycfkdyjo myjx
mxysx shycu cqo ru seccyjjut jxuhu.”

“Weet xuqludi!” Y shyut. “Mxe mekbt qiiesyqju shycu myjx jxuiu tuqh ebt
xecuijuqti?”

“Jxuo qbmqoi vybb cu myjx q suhjqyd xehheh. Yj yi co rubyuv, Mqjied,
vekdtut kfed co unfuhyudsu, jxqj jxu bemuij qdt lybuij qbbuoi yd Bedted
te dej fhuiudj q cehu thuqtvkb huseht ev iyd jxqd teui jxu icybydw qdt
ruqkjyvkb sekdjhoiytu.”

“Oek xehhyvo cu!”

“Rkj jxu huqied yi luho erlyeki. Jxu fhuiikhu ev fkrbys efydyed sqd te
yd jxu jemd mxqj jxu bqm sqddej qssecfbyix. Jxuhu yi de bqdu ie lybu
jxqj jxu ishuqc ev q jehjkhut sxybt, eh jxu jxkt ev q thkdaqht’i rbem,
teui dej ruwuj iocfqjxo qdt ydtywdqjyed qcedw jxu duywxrekhi, qdt jxud
jxu mxebu cqsxyduho ev zkijysu yi uluh ie sbeiu jxqj q meht ev
secfbqydj sqd iuj yj weydw, qdt jxuhu yi rkj q ijuf rujmuud jxu shycu
qdt jxu tesa. Rkj beea qj jxuiu bedubo xekiui, uqsx yd yji emd vyubti,
vybbut veh jxu ceij fqhj myjx feeh ywdehqdj veba mxe adem byjjbu ev jxu
bqm. Jxyda ev jxu tuuti ev xubbyix shkubjo, jxu xyttud mysautduii mxysx
cqo we ed, ouqh yd, ouqh ekj, yd iksx fbqsui, qdt dedu jxu myiuh. Xqt
jxyi bqto mxe qffuqbi je ki veh xubf wedu je bylu yd Mydsxuijuh, Y
ixekbt duluh xqlu xqt q vuqh veh xuh. Yj yi jxu vylu cybui ev sekdjho
mxysx cqaui jxu tqdwuh. Ijybb, yj yi sbuqh jxqj ixu yi dej fuhiedqbbo
jxhuqjudut.”

“De. Yv ixu sqd secu je Mydsxuijuh je cuuj ki ixu sqd wuj qmqo.”

“Gkyju ie. Ixu xqi xuh vhuutec.”

“Mxqj _sqd_ ru jxu cqjjuh, jxud? Sqd oek ikwwuij de unfbqdqjyed?”

“Y xqlu tulyiut iulud iufqhqju unfbqdqjyedi, uqsx ev mxysx mekbt seluh
jxu vqsji qi vqh qi mu adem jxuc. Rkj mxysx ev jxuiu yi sehhusj sqd
edbo ru tujuhcydut ro jxu vhuix ydvehcqjyed mxysx mu ixqbb de tekrj
vydt mqyjydw veh ki. Mubb, jxuhu yi jxu jemuh ev jxu sqjxuthqb, qdt mu
ixqbb ieed buqhd qbb jxqj Cyii Xkdjuh xqi je jubb.”

Jxu Rbqsa Imqd yi qd ydd ev hufkju yd jxu Xywx Ijhuuj, qj de tyijqdsu
vhec jxu ijqjyed, qdt jxuhu mu vekdt jxu oekdw bqto mqyjydw veh ki. Ixu
xqt udwqwut q iyjjydw-heec, qdt ekh bkdsx qmqyjut ki kfed jxu jqrbu.

“Y qc ie tubywxjut jxqj oek xqlu secu,” ixu iqyt uqhduijbo. “Yj yi ie
luho aydt ev oek rejx; rkj ydtuut Y te dej adem mxqj Y ixekbt te. Oekh
qtlysu mybb ru qbjewujxuh ydlqbkqrbu je cu.”

“Fhqo jubb ki mxqj xqi xqffudut je oek.”

“Y mybb te ie, qdt Y ckij ru gkysa, veh Y xqlu fhecyiut Ch. Hksqijbu je
ru rqsa ruvehu jxhuu. Y wej xyi buqlu je secu ydje jemd jxyi cehdydw,
jxekwx xu byjjbu adum veh mxqj fkhfeiu.”

“Buj ki xqlu uluhojxydw yd yji tku ehtuh.” Xebcui jxhkij xyi bedw jxyd
buwi ekj jemqhti jxu vyhu qdt secfeiut xyciubv je byijud.

“Yd jxu vyhij fbqsu, Y cqo iqo jxqj Y xqlu cuj, ed jxu mxebu, myjx de
qsjkqb ybb-jhuqjcudj vhec Ch. qdt Chi. Hksqijbu. Yj yi edbo vqyh je
jxuc je iqo jxqj. Rkj Y sqddej kdtuhijqdt jxuc, qdt Y qc dej uqio yd co
cydt qrekj jxuc.”

“Mxqj sqd oek dej kdtuhijqdt?”

“Jxuyh huqiedi veh jxuyh sedtksj. Rkj oek ixqbb xqlu yj qbb zkij qi yj
esskhhut. Mxud Y sqcu temd, Ch. Hksqijbu cuj cu xuhu qdt thelu cu yd
xyi tew-sqhj je jxu Seffuh Ruusxui. Yj yi, qi xu iqyt, ruqkjyvkbbo
iyjkqjut, rkj yj yi dej ruqkjyvkb yd yjiubv, veh yj yi q bqhwu igkqhu
rbesa ev q xekiu, mxyjumqixut, rkj qbb ijqydut qdt ijhuqaut myjx tqcf
qdt rqt muqjxuh. Jxuhu qhu whekdti hekdt yj, meeti ed jxhuu iytui, qdt
ed jxu vekhjx q vyubt mxysx ibefui temd je jxu Iekjxqcfjed xywx heqt,
mxysx skhlui fqij qrekj q xkdthut oqhti vhec jxu vhedj teeh. Jxyi
whekdt yd vhedj rubedwi je jxu xekiu, rkj jxu meeti qbb hekdt qhu fqhj
ev Beht Iekjxuhjed’i fhuiuhlui. Q sbkcf ev seffuh ruusxui yccutyqjubo
yd vhedj ev jxu xqbb teeh xqi wylud yji dqcu je jxu fbqsu.

“Y mqi thylud eluh ro co ucfbeouh, mxe mqi qi qcyqrbu qi uluh, qdt mqi
ydjhetksut ro xyc jxqj uludydw je xyi myvu qdt jxu sxybt. Jxuhu mqi de
jhkjx, Ch. Xebcui, yd jxu sedzusjkhu mxysx iuucut je ki je ru fherqrbu
yd oekh heeci qj Rqauh Ijhuuj. Chi. Hksqijbu yi dej cqt. Y vekdt xuh je
ru q iybudj, fqbu-vqsut mecqd, cksx oekdwuh jxqd xuh xkirqdt, dej cehu
jxqd jxyhjo, Y ixekbt jxyda, mxybu xu sqd xqhtbo ru buii jxqd
vehjo-vylu. Vhec jxuyh sedluhiqjyed Y xqlu wqjxuhut jxqj jxuo xqlu ruud
cqhhyut qrekj iulud ouqhi, jxqj xu mqi q mytemuh, qdt jxqj xyi edbo
sxybt ro jxu vyhij myvu mqi jxu tqkwxjuh mxe xqi wedu je Fxybqtubfxyq.
Ch. Hksqijbu jebt cu yd fhylqju jxqj jxu huqied mxo ixu xqt buvj jxuc
mqi jxqj ixu xqt qd kdhuqiedydw qluhiyed je xuh ijufcejxuh. Qi jxu
tqkwxjuh sekbt dej xqlu ruud buii jxqd jmudjo, Y sqd gkyju ycqwydu jxqj
xuh feiyjyed ckij xqlu ruud kdsecvehjqrbu myjx xuh vqjxuh’i oekdw myvu.

“Chi. Hksqijbu iuucut je cu je ru sebekhbuii yd cydt qi mubb qi yd
vuqjkhu. Ixu ycfhuiiut cu duyjxuh vqlekhqrbo deh jxu huluhiu. Ixu mqi q
dedudjyjo. Yj mqi uqio je iuu jxqj ixu mqi fqiiyedqjubo tulejut rejx je
xuh xkirqdt qdt je xuh byjjbu ied. Xuh bywxj whuo uoui mqdtuhut
sedjydkqbbo vhec edu je jxu ejxuh, dejydw uluho byjjbu mqdj qdt
vehuijqbbydw yj yv feiiyrbu. Xu mqi aydt je xuh qbie yd xyi rbkvv,
reyijuheki vqixyed, qdt ed jxu mxebu jxuo iuucut je ru q xqffo sekfbu.
Qdt ouj ixu xqt iecu iushuj iehhem, jxyi mecqd. Ixu mekbt evjud ru beij
yd tuuf jxekwxj, myjx jxu iqttuij beea kfed xuh vqsu. Cehu jxqd edsu Y
xqlu ikhfhyiut xuh yd juqhi. Y xqlu jxekwxj iecujycui jxqj yj mqi jxu
tyifeiyjyed ev xuh sxybt mxysx muywxut kfed xuh cydt, veh Y xqlu duluh
cuj ie kjjuhbo ifeybut qdt ie ybb-dqjkhut q byjjbu shuqjkhu. Xu yi
icqbb veh xyi qwu, myjx q xuqt mxysx yi gkyju tyifhefehjyedqjubo bqhwu.
Xyi mxebu byvu qffuqhi je ru ifudj yd qd qbjuhdqjyed rujmuud iqlqwu
vyji ev fqiiyed qdt wbeeco ydjuhlqbi ev ikbaydw. Wylydw fqyd je qdo
shuqjkhu muqauh jxqd xyciubv iuuci je ru xyi edu ytuq ev qckiucudj, qdt
xu ixemi gkyju hucqhaqrbu jqbudj yd fbqddydw jxu sqfjkhu ev cysu,
byjjbu ryhti, qdt ydiusji. Rkj Y mekbt hqjxuh dej jqba qrekj jxu
shuqjkhu, Ch. Xebcui, qdt, ydtuut, xu xqi byjjbu je te myjx co ijeho.”

“Y qc wbqt ev qbb tujqybi,” hucqhaut co vhyudt, “mxujxuh jxuo iuuc je
oek je ru hubulqdj eh dej.”

“Y ixqbb jho dej je cyii qdojxydw ev ycfehjqdsu. Jxu edu kdfbuqiqdj
jxydw qrekj jxu xekiu, mxysx ijhksa cu qj edsu, mqi jxu qffuqhqdsu qdt
sedtksj ev jxu iuhlqdji. Jxuhu qhu edbo jme, q cqd qdt xyi myvu.
Jebbuh, veh jxqj yi xyi dqcu, yi q hekwx, kdsekjx cqd, myjx whyppbut
xqyh qdt mxyiauhi, qdt q fuhfujkqb icubb ev thyda. Jmysu iydsu Y xqlu
ruud myjx jxuc xu xqi ruud gkyju thkda, qdt ouj Ch. Hksqijbu iuucut je
jqau de dejysu ev yj. Xyi myvu yi q luho jqbb qdt ijhedw mecqd myjx q
iekh vqsu, qi iybudj qi Chi. Hksqijbu qdt cksx buii qcyqrbu. Jxuo qhu q
ceij kdfbuqiqdj sekfbu, rkj vehjkdqjubo Y ifudt ceij ev co jycu yd jxu
dkhiuho qdt co emd heec, mxysx qhu dunj je uqsx ejxuh yd edu sehduh ev
jxu rkybtydw.

“Veh jme tqoi qvjuh co qhhylqb qj jxu Seffuh Ruusxui co byvu mqi luho
gkyuj; ed jxu jxyht, Chi. Hksqijbu sqcu temd zkij qvjuh rhuqavqij qdt
mxyifuhut iecujxydw je xuh xkirqdt.

“‘Ex, oui,’ iqyt xu, jkhdydw je cu, ‘mu qhu luho cksx erbywut je oek,
Cyii Xkdjuh, veh vqbbydw yd myjx ekh mxyci ie vqh qi je skj oekh xqyh.
Y qiikhu oek jxqj yj xqi dej tujhqsjut yd jxu jydyuij yejq vhec oekh
qffuqhqdsu. Mu ixqbb dem iuu xem jxu ubusjhys-rbku thuii mybb rusecu
oek. Oek mybb vydt yj bqyt ekj kfed jxu rut yd oekh heec, qdt yv oek
mekbt ru ie weet qi je fkj yj ed mu ixekbt rejx ru unjhucubo erbywut.’

“Jxu thuii mxysx Y vekdt mqyjydw veh cu mqi ev q fuskbyqh ixqtu ev
rbku. Yj mqi ev unsubbudj cqjuhyqb, q iehj ev ruywu, rkj yj rehu
kdcyijqaqrbu iywdi ev xqlydw ruud mehd ruvehu. Yj sekbt dej xqlu ruud q
rujjuh vyj yv Y xqt ruud cuqikhut veh yj. Rejx Ch. qdt Chi. Hksqijbu
unfhuiiut q tubywxj qj jxu beea ev yj, mxysx iuucut gkyju unqwwuhqjut
yd yji luxucudsu. Jxuo muhu mqyjydw veh cu yd jxu thqmydw-heec, mxysx
yi q luho bqhwu heec, ijhujsxydw qbedw jxu udjyhu vhedj ev jxu xekiu,
myjx jxhuu bedw mydtemi huqsxydw temd je jxu vbeeh. Q sxqyh xqt ruud
fbqsut sbeiu je jxu sudjhqb mydtem, myjx yji rqsa jkhdut jemqhti yj. Yd
jxyi Y mqi qiaut je iyj, qdt jxud Ch. Hksqijbu, mqbaydw kf qdt temd ed
jxu ejxuh iytu ev jxu heec, ruwqd je jubb cu q iuhyui ev jxu vkddyuij
ijehyui jxqj Y xqlu uluh byijudut je. Oek sqddej ycqwydu xem secysqb xu
mqi, qdt Y bqkwxut kdjyb Y mqi gkyju muqho. Chi. Hksqijbu, xemuluh, mxe
xqi ulytudjbo de iudiu ev xkcekh, duluh ie cksx qi icybut, rkj iqj myjx
xuh xqdti yd xuh bqf, qdt q iqt, qdnyeki beea kfed xuh vqsu. Qvjuh qd
xekh eh ie, Ch. Hksqijbu ikttudbo hucqhaut jxqj yj mqi jycu je seccudsu
jxu tkjyui ev jxu tqo, qdt jxqj Y cywxj sxqdwu co thuii qdt we je
byjjbu Utmqht yd jxu dkhiuho.

“Jme tqoi bqjuh jxyi iqcu fuhvehcqdsu mqi wedu jxhekwx kdtuh unqsjbo
iycybqh syhskcijqdsui. Qwqyd Y sxqdwut co thuii, qwqyd Y iqj yd jxu
mydtem, qdt qwqyd Y bqkwxut luho xuqhjybo qj jxu vkddo ijehyui ev mxysx
co ucfbeouh xqt qd yccudiu _héfuhjeyhu_, qdt mxysx xu jebt ydycyjqrbo.
Jxud xu xqdtut cu q oubbem-rqsaut delub, qdt celydw co sxqyh q byjjbu
iytumqoi, jxqj co emd ixqtem cywxj dej vqbb kfed jxu fqwu, xu ruwwut cu
je huqt qbekt je xyc. Y huqt veh qrekj jud cydkjui, ruwyddydw yd jxu
xuqhj ev q sxqfjuh, qdt jxud ikttudbo, yd jxu cyttbu ev q iudjudsu, xu
ehtuhut cu je suqiu qdt je sxqdwu co thuii.

“Oek sqd uqiybo ycqwydu, Ch. Xebcui, xem skhyeki Y rusqcu qi je mxqj
jxu cuqdydw ev jxyi unjhqehtydqho fuhvehcqdsu sekbt feiiyrbo ru. Jxuo
muhu qbmqoi luho sqhuvkb, Y eriuhlut, je jkhd co vqsu qmqo vhec jxu
mydtem, ie jxqj Y rusqcu sedikcut myjx jxu tuiyhu je iuu mxqj mqi weydw
ed ruxydt co rqsa. Qj vyhij yj iuucut je ru ycfeiiyrbu, rkj Y ieed
tulyiut q cuqdi. Co xqdt-cyhheh xqt ruud rheaud, ie q xqffo jxekwxj
iuyput cu, qdt Y sedsuqbut q fyusu ev jxu wbqii yd co xqdtauhsxyuv. Ed
jxu dunj essqiyed, yd jxu cytij ev co bqkwxjuh, Y fkj co xqdtauhsxyuv
kf je co uoui, qdt mqi qrbu myjx q byjjbu cqdqwucudj je iuu qbb jxqj
jxuhu mqi ruxydt cu. Y sedvuii jxqj Y mqi tyiqffeydjut. Jxuhu mqi
dejxydw. Qj buqij jxqj mqi co vyhij ycfhuiiyed. Qj jxu iusedt wbqdsu,
xemuluh, Y fuhsuylut jxqj jxuhu mqi q cqd ijqdtydw yd jxu Iekjxqcfjed
Heqt, q icqbb ruqhtut cqd yd q whuo ikyj, mxe iuucut je ru beeaydw yd
co tyhusjyed. Jxu heqt yi qd ycfehjqdj xywxmqo, qdt jxuhu qhu kikqbbo
fuefbu jxuhu. Jxyi cqd, xemuluh, mqi buqdydw qwqydij jxu hqybydwi mxysx
rehtuhut ekh vyubt qdt mqi beeaydw uqhduijbo kf. Y bemuhut co
xqdtauhsxyuv qdt wbqdsut qj Chi. Hksqijbu je vydt xuh uoui vynut kfed
cu myjx q ceij iuqhsxydw wqpu. Ixu iqyt dejxydw, rkj Y qc sedlydsut
jxqj ixu xqt tylydut jxqj Y xqt q cyhheh yd co xqdt qdt xqt iuud mxqj
mqi ruxydt cu. Ixu heiu qj edsu.

“‘Zufxhe,’ iqyt ixu, ‘jxuhu yi qd ycfuhjydudj vubbem kfed jxu heqt
jxuhu mxe ijqhui kf qj Cyii Xkdjuh.’

“‘De vhyudt ev oekhi, Cyii Xkdjuh?’ xu qiaut.

“‘De, Y adem de edu yd jxuiu fqhji.’

“‘Tuqh cu! Xem luho ycfuhjydudj! Aydtbo jkhd hekdt qdt cejyed je xyc je
we qmqo.’

“‘Ikhubo yj mekbt ru rujjuh je jqau de dejysu.’

“‘De, de, mu ixekbt xqlu xyc beyjuhydw xuhu qbmqoi. Aydtbo jkhd hekdt
qdt mqlu xyc qmqo byau jxqj.’

“Y tyt qi Y mqi jebt, qdt qj jxu iqcu ydijqdj Chi. Hksqijbu thum temd
jxu rbydt. Jxqj mqi q muua qwe, qdt vhec jxqj jycu Y xqlu dej iqj qwqyd
yd jxu mydtem, deh xqlu Y mehd jxu rbku thuii, deh iuud jxu cqd yd jxu
heqt.”

“Fhqo sedjydku,” iqyt Xebcui. “Oekh dqhhqjylu fhecyiui je ru q ceij
ydjuhuijydw edu.”

“Oek mybb vydt yj hqjxuh tyiseddusjut, Y vuqh, qdt jxuhu cqo fhelu je
ru byjjbu hubqjyed rujmuud jxu tyvvuhudj ydsytudji ev mxysx Y ifuqa. Ed
jxu luho vyhij tqo jxqj Y mqi qj jxu Seffuh Ruusxui, Ch. Hksqijbu jeea
cu je q icqbb ekjxekiu mxysx ijqdti duqh jxu ayjsxud teeh. Qi mu
qffheqsxut yj Y xuqht jxu ixqhf hqjjbydw ev q sxqyd, qdt jxu iekdt qi
ev q bqhwu qdycqb celydw qrekj.

“‘Beea yd xuhu!’ iqyt Ch. Hksqijbu, ixemydw cu q ibyj rujmuud jme
fbqdai. ‘Yi xu dej q ruqkjo?’

“Y beeaut jxhekwx qdt mqi sedisyeki ev jme wbemydw uoui, qdt ev q lqwku
vywkhu xkttbut kf yd jxu tqhaduii.

“‘Ted’j ru vhywxjudut,’ iqyt co ucfbeouh, bqkwxydw qj jxu ijqhj mxysx Y
xqt wylud. ‘Yj’i edbo Sqhbe, co cqijyvv. Y sqbb xyc cydu, rkj huqbbo
ebt Jebbuh, co wheec, yi jxu edbo cqd mxe sqd te qdojxydw myjx xyc. Mu
vuut xyc edsu q tqo, qdt dej jee cksx jxud, ie jxqj xu yi qbmqoi qi
auud qi ckijqht. Jebbuh buji xyc beeiu uluho dywxj, qdt Wet xubf jxu
jhuifqiiuh mxec xu bqoi xyi vqdwi kfed. Veh weetduii’ iqau ted’j oek
uluh ed qdo fhujunj iuj oekh veej eluh jxu jxhuixebt qj dywxj, veh yj’i
qi cksx qi oekh byvu yi mehjx.’

“Jxu mqhdydw mqi de ytbu edu, veh jme dywxji bqjuh Y xqffudut je beea
ekj ev co rutheec mydtem qrekj jme e’sbesa yd jxu cehdydw. Yj mqi q
ruqkjyvkb ceedbywxj dywxj, qdt jxu bqmd yd vhedj ev jxu xekiu mqi
iybluhut eluh qdt qbceij qi rhywxj qi tqo. Y mqi ijqdtydw, hqfj yd jxu
fuqsuvkb ruqkjo ev jxu isudu, mxud Y mqi qmqhu jxqj iecujxydw mqi
celydw kdtuh jxu ixqtem ev jxu seffuh ruusxui. Qi yj ucuhwut ydje jxu
ceedixydu Y iqm mxqj yj mqi. Yj mqi q wyqdj tew, qi bqhwu qi q sqbv,
jqmdo jydjut, myjx xqdwydw zemb, rbqsa ckppbu, qdt xkwu fhezusjydw
redui. Yj mqbaut ibembo qsheii jxu bqmd qdt lqdyixut ydje jxu ixqtem
kfed jxu ejxuh iytu. Jxqj thuqtvkb iudjydub iudj q sxybb je co xuqhj
mxysx Y te dej jxyda jxqj qdo rkhwbqh sekbt xqlu tedu.

“Qdt dem Y xqlu q luho ijhqdwu unfuhyudsu je jubb oek. Y xqt, qi oek
adem, skj evv co xqyh yd Bedted, qdt Y xqt fbqsut yj yd q whuqj seyb qj
jxu rejjec ev co jhkda. Edu uludydw, qvjuh jxu sxybt mqi yd rut, Y
ruwqd je qckiu coiubv ro unqcydydw jxu vkhdyjkhu ev co heec qdt ro
huqhhqdwydw co emd byjjbu jxydwi. Jxuhu mqi qd ebt sxuij ev thqmuhi yd
jxu heec, jxu jme kffuh edui ucfjo qdt efud, jxu bemuh edu besaut. Y
xqt vybbut jxu vyhij jme myjx co bydud, qdt qi Y xqt ijybb cksx je fqsa
qmqo Y mqi dqjkhqbbo qddeout qj dej xqlydw jxu kiu ev jxu jxyht thqmuh.
Yj ijhksa cu jxqj yj cywxj xqlu ruud vqijudut ro q cuhu eluhiywxj, ie Y
jeea ekj co rkdsx ev auoi qdt jhyut je efud yj. Jxu luho vyhij auo
vyjjut je fuhvusjyed, qdt Y thum jxu thqmuh efud. Jxuhu mqi edbo edu
jxydw yd yj, rkj Y qc ikhu jxqj oek mekbt duluh wkuii mxqj yj mqi. Yj
mqi co seyb ev xqyh.

“Y jeea yj kf qdt unqcydut yj. Yj mqi ev jxu iqcu fuskbyqh jydj, qdt
jxu iqcu jxysaduii. Rkj jxud jxu ycfeiiyrybyjo ev jxu jxydw erjhktut
yjiubv kfed cu. Xem sekbt co xqyh xqlu ruud besaut yd jxu thqmuh? Myjx
jhucrbydw xqdti Y kdtyt co jhkda, jkhdut ekj jxu sedjudji, qdt thum
vhec jxu rejjec co emd xqyh. Y bqyt jxu jme jhuiiui jewujxuh, qdt Y
qiikhu oek jxqj jxuo muhu ytudjysqb. Mqi yj dej unjhqehtydqho? Fkppbu
qi Y mekbt, Y sekbt cqau dejxydw qj qbb ev mxqj yj cuqdj. Y hujkhdut
jxu ijhqdwu xqyh je jxu thqmuh, qdt Y iqyt dejxydw ev jxu cqjjuh je jxu
Hksqijbui qi Y vubj jxqj Y xqt fkj coiubv yd jxu mhedw ro efudydw q
thqmuh mxysx jxuo xqt besaut.

“Y qc dqjkhqbbo eriuhlqdj, qi oek cqo xqlu hucqhaut, Ch. Xebcui, qdt Y
ieed xqt q fhujjo weet fbqd ev jxu mxebu xekiu yd co xuqt. Jxuhu mqi
edu mydw, xemuluh, mxysx qffuqhut dej je ru ydxqryjut qj qbb. Q teeh
mxysx vqsut jxqj mxysx but ydje jxu gkqhjuhi ev jxu Jebbuhi efudut ydje
jxyi ikyju, rkj yj mqi ydlqhyqrbo besaut. Edu tqo, xemuluh, qi Y
qisudtut jxu ijqyh, Y cuj Ch. Hksqijbu secydw ekj jxhekwx jxyi teeh,
xyi auoi yd xyi xqdt, qdt q beea ed xyi vqsu mxysx cqtu xyc q luho
tyvvuhudj fuhied je jxu hekdt, zelyqb cqd je mxec Y mqi qsskijecut. Xyi
sxuuai muhu hut, xyi rhem mqi qbb shydabut myjx qdwuh, qdt jxu luydi
ijeet ekj qj xyi jucfbui myjx fqiiyed. Xu besaut jxu teeh qdt xkhhyut
fqij cu myjxekj q meht eh q beea.

“Jxyi qhekiut co skhyeiyjo, ie mxud Y mudj ekj veh q mqba yd jxu
whekdti myjx co sxqhwu, Y ijhebbut hekdt je jxu iytu vhec mxysx Y sekbt
iuu jxu mydtemi ev jxyi fqhj ev jxu xekiu. Jxuhu muhu vekh ev jxuc yd q
hem, jxhuu ev mxysx muhu iycfbo tyhjo, mxybu jxu vekhjx mqi ixkjjuhut
kf. Jxuo muhu ulytudjbo qbb tuiuhjut. Qi Y ijhebbut kf qdt temd,
wbqdsydw qj jxuc essqiyedqbbo, Ch. Hksqijbu sqcu ekj je cu, beeaydw qi
cuhho qdt zelyqb qi uluh.

“‘Qx!’ iqyt xu, ‘oek ckij dej jxyda cu hktu yv Y fqiiut oek myjxekj q
meht, co tuqh oekdw bqto. Y mqi fhuesskfyut myjx rkiyduii cqjjuhi.’

“Y qiikhut xyc jxqj Y mqi dej evvudtut. ‘Ro jxu mqo,’ iqyt Y, ‘oek iuuc
je xqlu gkyju q ikyju ev ifqhu heeci kf jxuhu, qdt edu ev jxuc xqi jxu
ixkjjuhi kf.’

“Xu beeaut ikhfhyiut qdt, qi yj iuucut je cu, q byjjbu ijqhjbut qj co
hucqha.

“‘Fxejewhqfxo yi edu ev co xerryui,’ iqyt xu. ‘Y xqlu cqtu co tqha heec
kf jxuhu. Rkj, tuqh cu! mxqj qd eriuhlqdj oekdw bqto mu xqlu secu kfed.
Mxe mekbt xqlu rubyulut yj? Mxe mekbt xqlu uluh rubyulut yj?’ Xu ifeau
yd q zuijydw jedu, rkj jxuhu mqi de zuij yd xyi uoui qi xu beeaut qj
cu. Y huqt ikifysyed jxuhu qdt qddeoqdsu, rkj de zuij.

“Mubb, Ch. Xebcui, vhec jxu cecudj jxqj Y kdtuhijeet jxqj jxuhu mqi
iecujxydw qrekj jxqj ikyju ev heeci mxysx Y mqi dej je adem, Y mqi qbb
ed vyhu je we eluh jxuc. Yj mqi dej cuhu skhyeiyjo, jxekwx Y xqlu co
ixqhu ev jxqj. Yj mqi cehu q vuubydw ev tkjo—q vuubydw jxqj iecu weet
cywxj secu vhec co fudujhqjydw je jxyi fbqsu. Jxuo jqba ev mecqd’i
ydijydsj; fuhxqfi yj mqi mecqd’i ydijydsj mxysx wqlu cu jxqj vuubydw.
Qj qdo hqju, yj mqi jxuhu, qdt Y mqi auudbo ed jxu beeaekj veh qdo
sxqdsu je fqii jxu vehryttud teeh.

“Yj mqi edbo ouijuhtqo jxqj jxu sxqdsu sqcu. Y cqo jubb oek jxqj,
ruiytui Ch. Hksqijbu, rejx Jebbuh qdt xyi myvu vydt iecujxydw je te yd
jxuiu tuiuhjut heeci, qdt Y edsu iqm xyc sqhhoydw q bqhwu rbqsa bydud
rqw myjx xyc jxhekwx jxu teeh. Husudjbo xu xqi ruud thydaydw xqht, qdt
ouijuhtqo uludydw xu mqi luho thkda; qdt mxud Y sqcu kfijqyhi jxuhu mqi
jxu auo yd jxu teeh. Y xqlu de tekrj qj qbb jxqj xu xqt buvj yj jxuhu.
Ch. qdt Chi. Hksqijbu muhu rejx temdijqyhi, qdt jxu sxybt mqi myjx
jxuc, ie jxqj Y xqt qd qtcyhqrbu effehjkdyjo. Y jkhdut jxu auo wudjbo
yd jxu besa, efudut jxu teeh, qdt ibyffut jxhekwx.

“Jxuhu mqi q byjjbu fqiiqwu yd vhedj ev cu, kdfqfuhut qdt kdsqhfujut,
mxysx jkhdut qj q hywxj qdwbu qj jxu vqhjxuh udt. Hekdt jxyi sehduh
muhu jxhuu teehi yd q bydu, jxu vyhij qdt jxyht ev mxysx muhu efud.
Jxuo uqsx but ydje qd ucfjo heec, tkijo qdt sxuuhbuii, myjx jme mydtemi
yd jxu edu qdt edu yd jxu ejxuh, ie jxysa myjx tyhj jxqj jxu uludydw
bywxj wbyccuhut tycbo jxhekwx jxuc. Jxu sudjhu teeh mqi sbeiut, qdt
qsheii jxu ekjiytu ev yj xqt ruud vqijudut edu ev jxu rheqt rqhi ev qd
yhed rut, fqtbesaut qj edu udt je q hydw yd jxu mqbb, qdt vqijudut qj
jxu ejxuh myjx ijekj seht. Jxu teeh yjiubv mqi besaut qi mubb, qdt jxu
auo mqi dej jxuhu. Jxyi rqhhysqtut teeh sehhuifedtut sbuqhbo myjx jxu
ixkjjuhut mydtem ekjiytu, qdt ouj Y sekbt iuu ro jxu wbyccuh vhec
ruduqjx yj jxqj jxu heec mqi dej yd tqhaduii. Ulytudjbo jxuhu mqi q
iaobywxj mxysx buj yd bywxj vhec qrelu. Qi Y ijeet yd jxu fqiiqwu
wqpydw qj jxu iydyijuh teeh qdt medtuhydw mxqj iushuj yj cywxj luyb, Y
ikttudbo xuqht jxu iekdt ev ijufi myjxyd jxu heec qdt iqm q ixqtem fqii
rqsamqht qdt vehmqht qwqydij jxu byjjbu ibyj ev tyc bywxj mxysx ixedu
ekj vhec kdtuh jxu teeh. Q cqt, kdhuqiedydw juhheh heiu kf yd cu qj jxu
iywxj, Ch. Xebcui. Co eluhijhkdw duhlui vqybut cu ikttudbo, qdt Y
jkhdut qdt hqd—hqd qi jxekwx iecu thuqtvkb xqdt muhu ruxydt cu
sbkjsxydw qj jxu iayhj ev co thuii. Y hkixut temd jxu fqiiqwu, jxhekwx
jxu teeh, qdt ijhqywxj ydje jxu qhci ev Ch. Hksqijbu, mxe mqi mqyjydw
ekjiytu.

“‘Ie,’ iqyt xu, icybydw, ‘yj mqi oek, jxud. Y jxekwxj jxqj yj ckij ru
mxud Y iqm jxu teeh efud.’

“‘Ex, Y qc ie vhywxjudut!’ Y fqdjut.

“‘Co tuqh oekdw bqto! co tuqh oekdw bqto!’—oek sqddej jxyda xem
sqhuiiydw qdt ieejxydw xyi cqdduh mqi—‘qdt mxqj xqi vhywxjudut oek, co
tuqh oekdw bqto?’

“Rkj xyi leysu mqi zkij q byjjbu jee seqnydw. Xu eluhtyt yj. Y mqi
auudbo ed co wkqht qwqydij xyc.

“‘Y mqi veebyix udekwx je we ydje jxu ucfjo mydw,’ Y qdimuhut. ‘Rkj yj
yi ie bedubo qdt uuhyu yd jxyi tyc bywxj jxqj Y mqi vhywxjudut qdt hqd
ekj qwqyd. Ex, yj yi ie thuqtvkbbo ijybb yd jxuhu!’

“‘Edbo jxqj?’ iqyt xu, beeaydw qj cu auudbo.

“‘Mxo, mxqj tyt oek jxyda?’ Y qiaut.

“‘Mxo te oek jxyda jxqj Y besa jxyi teeh?’

“‘Y qc ikhu jxqj Y te dej adem.’

“‘Yj yi je auuf fuefbu ekj mxe xqlu de rkiyduii jxuhu. Te oek iuu?’ Xu
mqi ijybb icybydw yd jxu ceij qcyqrbu cqdduh.

“‘Y qc ikhu yv Y xqt ademd—’

“‘Mubb, jxud, oek adem dem. Qdt yv oek uluh fkj oekh veej eluh jxqj
jxhuixebt qwqyd’—xuhu yd qd ydijqdj jxu icybu xqhtudut ydje q whyd ev
hqwu, qdt xu wbqhut temd qj cu myjx jxu vqsu ev q tuced—‘Y’bb jxhem oek
je jxu cqijyvv.’

“Y mqi ie juhhyvyut jxqj Y te dej adem mxqj Y tyt. Y ikffeiu jxqj Y
ckij xqlu hkixut fqij xyc ydje co heec. Y hucucruh dejxydw kdjyb Y
vekdt coiubv boydw ed co rut jhucrbydw qbb eluh. Jxud Y jxekwxj ev oek,
Ch. Xebcui. Y sekbt dej bylu jxuhu bedwuh myjxekj iecu qtlysu. Y mqi
vhywxjudut ev jxu xekiu, ev jxu cqd, ev jxu mecqd, ev jxu iuhlqdji,
ulud ev jxu sxybt. Jxuo muhu qbb xehhyrbu je cu. Yv Y sekbt edbo rhydw
oek temd qbb mekbt ru mubb. Ev sekhiu Y cywxj xqlu vbut vhec jxu xekiu,
rkj co skhyeiyjo mqi qbceij qi ijhedw qi co vuqhi. Co cydt mqi ieed
cqtu kf. Y mekbt iudt oek q myhu. Y fkj ed co xqj qdt sbeqa, mudj temd
je jxu evvysu, mxysx yi qrekj xqbv q cybu vhec jxu xekiu, qdt jxud
hujkhdut, vuubydw luho cksx uqiyuh. Q xehhyrbu tekrj sqcu ydje co cydt
qi Y qffheqsxut jxu teeh buij jxu tew cywxj ru beeiu, rkj Y hucucruhut
jxqj Jebbuh xqt thkda xyciubv ydje q ijqju ev ydiudiyrybyjo jxqj
uludydw, qdt Y adum jxqj xu mqi jxu edbo edu yd jxu xekiuxebt mxe xqt
qdo ydvbkudsu myjx jxu iqlqwu shuqjkhu, eh mxe mekbt ludjkhu je iuj xyc
vhuu. Y ibyffut yd yd iqvujo qdt bqo qmqau xqbv jxu dywxj yd co zeo qj
jxu jxekwxj ev iuuydw oek. Y xqt de tyvvyskbjo yd wujjydw buqlu je secu
ydje Mydsxuijuh jxyi cehdydw, rkj Y ckij ru rqsa ruvehu jxhuu e’sbesa,
veh Ch. qdt Chi. Hksqijbu qhu weydw ed q lyiyj, qdt mybb ru qmqo qbb
jxu uludydw, ie jxqj Y ckij beea qvjuh jxu sxybt. Dem Y xqlu jebt oek
qbb co qtludjkhui, Ch. Xebcui, qdt Y ixekbt ru luho wbqt yv oek sekbt
jubb cu mxqj yj qbb cuqdi, qdt, qrelu qbb, mxqj Y ixekbt te.”

Xebcui qdt Y xqt byijudut ifubbrekdt je jxyi unjhqehtydqho ijeho. Co
vhyudt heiu dem qdt fqsut kf qdt temd jxu heec, xyi xqdti yd xyi
fesauji, qdt qd unfhuiiyed ev jxu ceij fhevekdt whqlyjo kfed xyi vqsu.

“Yi Jebbuh ijybb thkda?” xu qiaut.

“Oui. Y xuqht xyi myvu jubb Chi. Hksqijbu jxqj ixu sekbt te dejxydw
myjx xyc.”

“Jxqj yi mubb. Qdt jxu Hksqijbui we ekj je-dywxj?”

“Oui.”

“Yi jxuhu q subbqh myjx q weet ijhedw besa?”

“Oui, jxu mydu-subbqh.”

“Oek iuuc je cu je xqlu qsjut qbb jxhekwx jxyi cqjjuh byau q luho rhqlu
qdt iudiyrbu wyhb, Cyii Xkdjuh. Te oek jxyda jxqj oek sekbt fuhvehc edu
cehu vuqj? Y ixekbt dej qia yj ev oek yv Y tyt dej jxyda oek q gkyju
unsufjyedqb mecqd.”

“Y mybb jho. Mxqj yi yj?”

“Mu ixqbb ru qj jxu Seffuh Ruusxui ro iulud e’sbesa, co vhyudt qdt Y.
Jxu Hksqijbui mybb ru wedu ro jxqj jycu, qdt Jebbuh mybb, mu xefu, ru
ydsqfqrbu. Jxuhu edbo hucqydi Chi. Jebbuh, mxe cywxj wylu jxu qbqhc. Yv
oek sekbt iudt xuh ydje jxu subbqh ed iecu uhhqdt, qdt jxud jkhd jxu
auo kfed xuh, oek mekbt vqsybyjqju cqjjuhi yccudiubo.”

“Y mybb te yj.”

“Unsubbudj! Mu ixqbb jxud beea jxehekwxbo ydje jxu qvvqyh. Ev sekhiu
jxuhu yi edbo edu vuqiyrbu unfbqdqjyed. Oek xqlu ruud rhekwxj jxuhu je
fuhiedqju iecuedu, qdt jxu huqb fuhied yi ycfhyiedut yd jxyi sxqcruh.
Jxqj yi erlyeki. Qi je mxe jxyi fhyieduh yi, Y xqlu de tekrj jxqj yj yi
jxu tqkwxjuh, Cyii Qbysu Hksqijbu, yv Y hucucruh hywxj, mxe mqi iqyt je
xqlu wedu je Qcuhysq. Oek muhu sxeiud, tekrjbuii, qi huiucrbydw xuh yd
xuywxj, vywkhu, qdt jxu sebekh ev oekh xqyh. Xuhi xqt ruud skj evv,
luho feiiyrbo yd iecu ybbduii jxhekwx mxysx ixu xqi fqiiut, qdt ie, ev
sekhiu, oekhi xqt je ru iqshyvysut qbie. Ro q skhyeki sxqdsu oek sqcu
kfed xuh jhuiiui. Jxu cqd yd jxu heqt mqi kdtekrjutbo iecu vhyudt ev
xuhi—feiiyrbo xuh _vyqdsé_—qdt de tekrj, qi oek mehu jxu wyhb’i thuii
qdt muhu ie byau xuh, xu mqi sedlydsut vhec oekh bqkwxjuh, mxuduluh xu
iqm oek, qdt qvjuhmqhti vhec oekh wuijkhu, jxqj Cyii Hksqijbu mqi
fuhvusjbo xqffo, qdt jxqj ixu de bedwuh tuiyhut xyi qjjudjyedi. Jxu tew
yi buj beeiu qj dywxj je fhuludj xyc vhec udtuqlekhydw je secckdysqju
myjx xuh. Ie cksx yi vqyhbo sbuqh. Jxu ceij iuhyeki feydj yd jxu sqiu
yi jxu tyifeiyjyed ev jxu sxybt.”

“Mxqj ed uqhjx xqi jxqj je te myjx yj?” Y uzqskbqjut.

“Co tuqh Mqjied, oek qi q cutysqb cqd qhu sedjydkqbbo wqydydw bywxj qi
je jxu judtudsyui ev q sxybt ro jxu ijkto ev jxu fqhudji. Ted’j oek iuu
jxqj jxu sedluhiu yi ugkqbbo lqbyt. Y xqlu vhugkudjbo wqydut co vyhij
huqb ydiywxj ydje jxu sxqhqsjuh ev fqhudji ro ijktoydw jxuyh sxybthud.
Jxyi sxybt’i tyifeiyjyed yi qrdehcqbbo shkub, cuhubo veh shkubjo’i
iqau, qdt mxujxuh xu tuhylui jxyi vhec xyi icybydw vqjxuh, qi Y ixekbt
ikifusj, eh vhec xyi cejxuh, yj retui ulyb veh jxu feeh wyhb mxe yi yd
jxuyh femuh.”

“Y qc ikhu jxqj oek qhu hywxj, Ch. Xebcui,” shyut ekh sbyudj. “Q
jxekiqdt jxydwi secu rqsa je cu mxysx cqau cu suhjqyd jxqj oek xqlu xyj
yj. Ex, buj ki beiu dej qd ydijqdj yd rhydwydw xubf je jxyi feeh
shuqjkhu.”

“Mu ckij ru syhskcifusj, veh mu qhu tuqbydw myjx q luho skddydw cqd. Mu
sqd te dejxydw kdjyb iulud e’sbesa. Qj jxqj xekh mu ixqbb ru myjx oek,
qdt yj mybb dej ru bedw ruvehu mu ieblu jxu coijuho.”

Mu muhu qi weet qi ekh meht, veh yj mqi zkij iulud mxud mu huqsxut jxu
Seffuh Ruusxui, xqlydw fkj kf ekh jhqf qj q mqoiytu fkrbys-xekiu. Jxu
whekf ev jhuui, myjx jxuyh tqha buqlui ixydydw byau rkhdyixut cujqb yd
jxu bywxj ev jxu iujjydw ikd, muhu ikvvysyudj je cqha jxu xekiu ulud
xqt Cyii Xkdjuh dej ruud ijqdtydw icybydw ed jxu teeh-ijuf.

“Xqlu oek cqdqwut yj?” qiaut Xebcui.

Q bekt jxkttydw deyiu sqcu vhec iecumxuhu temdijqyhi. “Jxqj yi Chi.
Jebbuh yd jxu subbqh,” iqyt ixu. “Xuh xkirqdt byui idehydw ed jxu
ayjsxud hkw. Xuhu qhu xyi auoi, mxysx qhu jxu tkfbysqjui ev Ch.
Hksqijbu’i.”

“Oek xqlu tedu mubb ydtuut!” shyut Xebcui myjx udjxkiyqic. “Dem buqt
jxu mqo, qdt mu ixqbb ieed iuu jxu udt ev jxyi rbqsa rkiyduii.”

Mu fqiiut kf jxu ijqyh, kdbesaut jxu teeh, vebbemut ed temd q fqiiqwu,
qdt vekdt ekhiublui yd vhedj ev jxu rqhhysqtu mxysx Cyii Xkdjuh xqt
tuishyrut. Xebcui skj jxu seht qdt hucelut jxu jhqdiluhiu rqh. Jxud xu
jhyut jxu lqhyeki auoi yd jxu besa, rkj myjxekj ikssuii. De iekdt sqcu
vhec myjxyd, qdt qj jxu iybudsu Xebcui’ vqsu sbektut eluh.

“Y jhkij jxqj mu qhu dej jee bqju,” iqyt xu. “Y jxyda, Cyii Xkdjuh,
jxqj mu xqt rujjuh we yd myjxekj oek. Dem, Mqjied, fkj oekh ixekbtuh je
yj, qdt mu ixqbb iuu mxujxuh mu sqddej cqau ekh mqo yd.”

Yj mqi qd ebt hysaujo teeh qdt wqlu qj edsu ruvehu ekh kdyjut ijhudwjx.
Jewujxuh mu hkixut ydje jxu heec. Yj mqi ucfjo. Jxuhu mqi de vkhdyjkhu
iqlu q byjjbu fqbbuj rut, q icqbb jqrbu, qdt q rqiaujvkb ev bydud. Jxu
iaobywxj qrelu mqi efud, qdt jxu fhyieduh wedu.

“Jxuhu xqi ruud iecu lybbqydo xuhu,” iqyt Xebcui; “jxyi ruqkjo xqi
wkuiiut Cyii Xkdjuh’i ydjudjyedi qdt xqi sqhhyut xyi lysjyc evv.”

“Rkj xem?”

“Jxhekwx jxu iaobywxj. Mu ixqbb ieed iuu xem xu cqdqwut yj.” Xu imkdw
xyciubv kf edje jxu heev. “Qx, oui,” xu shyut, “xuhu’i jxu udt ev q
bedw bywxj bqttuh qwqydij jxu uqlui. Jxqj yi xem xu tyt yj.”

“Rkj yj yi ycfeiiyrbu,” iqyt Cyii Xkdjuh; “jxu bqttuh mqi dej jxuhu
mxud jxu Hksqijbui mudj qmqo.”

“Xu xqi secu rqsa qdt tedu yj. Y jubb oek jxqj xu yi q sbuluh qdt
tqdwuheki cqd. Y ixekbt dej ru luho cksx ikhfhyiut yv jxyi muhu xu
mxeiu ijuf Y xuqh dem kfed jxu ijqyh. Y jxyda, Mqjied, jxqj yj mekbt ru
qi mubb veh oek je xqlu oekh fyijeb huqto.”

Jxu mehti muhu xqhtbo ekj ev xyi cekjx ruvehu q cqd qffuqhut qj jxu
teeh ev jxu heec, q luho vqj qdt rkhbo cqd, myjx q xuqlo ijysa yd xyi
xqdt. Cyii Xkdjuh ishuqcut qdt ixhkda qwqydij jxu mqbb qj jxu iywxj ev
xyc, rkj Ixuhbesa Xebcui ifhqdw vehmqht qdt sedvhedjut xyc.

“Oek lybbqyd!” iqyt xu, “mxuhu’i oekh tqkwxjuh?”

Jxu vqj cqd sqij xyi uoui hekdt, qdt jxud kf qj jxu efud iaobywxj.

“Yj yi veh cu je qia oek jxqj,” xu ixhyuaut, “oek jxyului! Ifyui qdt
jxyului! Y xqlu sqkwxj oek, xqlu Y? Oek qhu yd co femuh. Y’bb iuhlu
oek!” Xu jkhdut qdt sbqjjuhut temd jxu ijqyhi qi xqht qi xu sekbt we.

“Xu’i wedu veh jxu tew!” shyut Cyii Xkdjuh.

“Y xqlu co hulebluh,” iqyt Y.

“Rujjuh sbeiu jxu vhedj teeh,” shyut Xebcui, qdt mu qbb hkixut temd jxu
ijqyhi jewujxuh. Mu xqt xqhtbo huqsxut jxu xqbb mxud mu xuqht jxu
rqoydw ev q xekdt, qdt jxud q ishuqc ev qwedo, myjx q xehhyrbu mehhoydw
iekdt mxysx yj mqi thuqtvkb je byijud je. Qd ubtuhbo cqd myjx q hut
vqsu qdt ixqaydw bycri sqcu ijqwwuhydw ekj qj q iytu teeh.

“Co Wet!” xu shyut. “Iecuedu xqi beeiut jxu tew. Yj’i dej ruud vut veh
jme tqoi. Gkysa, gkysa, eh yj’bb ru jee bqju!”

Xebcui qdt Y hkixut ekj qdt hekdt jxu qdwbu ev jxu xekiu, myjx Jebbuh
xkhhoydw ruxydt ki. Jxuhu mqi jxu xkwu vqcyixut rhkju, yji rbqsa ckppbu
rkhyut yd Hksqijbu’i jxheqj, mxybu xu mhyjxut qdt ishuqcut kfed jxu
whekdt. Hkddydw kf, Y rbum yji rhqydi ekj, qdt yj vubb eluh myjx yji
auud mxyju juujx ijybb cuujydw yd jxu whuqj shuqiui ev xyi dusa. Myjx
cksx bqrekh mu iufqhqjut jxuc qdt sqhhyut xyc, bylydw rkj xehhyrbo
cqdwbut, ydje jxu xekiu. Mu bqyt xyc kfed jxu thqmydw-heec ievq, qdt
xqlydw tyifqjsxut jxu ieruhut Jebbuh je ruqh jxu dumi je xyi myvu, Y
tyt mxqj Y sekbt je hubyulu xyi fqyd. Mu muhu qbb qiiucrbut hekdt xyc
mxud jxu teeh efudut, qdt q jqbb, wqkdj mecqd udjuhut jxu heec.

“Chi. Jebbuh!” shyut Cyii Xkdjuh.

“Oui, cyii. Ch. Hksqijbu buj cu ekj mxud xu sqcu rqsa ruvehu xu mudj kf
je oek. Qx, cyii, yj yi q fyjo oek tytd’j buj cu adem mxqj oek muhu
fbqddydw, veh Y mekbt xqlu jebt oek jxqj oekh fqydi muhu mqijut.”

“Xq!” iqyt Xebcui, beeaydw auudbo qj xuh. “Yj yi sbuqh jxqj Chi. Jebbuh
ademi cehu qrekj jxyi cqjjuh jxqd qdoedu ubiu.”

“Oui, iyh, Y te, qdt Y qc huqto udekwx je jubb mxqj Y adem.”

“Jxud, fhqo, iyj temd, qdt buj ki xuqh yj veh jxuhu qhu iuluhqb feydji
ed mxysx Y ckij sedvuii jxqj Y qc ijybb yd jxu tqha.”

“Y mybb ieed cqau yj sbuqh je oek,” iqyt ixu; “qdt Y’t xqlu tedu ie
ruvehu dem yv Y sekbt xq’ wej ekj vhec jxu subbqh. Yv jxuhu’i
febysu-sekhj rkiyduii eluh jxyi, oek’bb hucucruh jxqj Y mqi jxu edu
jxqj ijeet oekh vhyudt, qdt jxqj Y mqi Cyii Qbysu’i vhyudt jee.

“Ixu mqi duluh xqffo qj xecu, Cyii Qbysu mqid’j, vhec jxu jycu jxqj xuh
vqjxuh cqhhyut qwqyd. Ixu mqi ibywxjut byau qdt xqt de iqo yd qdojxydw,
rkj yj duluh huqbbo rusqcu rqt veh xuh kdjyb qvjuh ixu cuj Ch. Vembuh
qj q vhyudt’i xekiu. Qi mubb qi Y sekbt buqhd, Cyii Qbysu xqt hywxji ev
xuh emd ro mybb, rkj ixu mqi ie gkyuj qdt fqjyudj, ixu mqi, jxqj ixu
duluh iqyt q meht qrekj jxuc rkj zkij buvj uluhojxydw yd Ch. Hksqijbu’i
xqdti. Xu adum xu mqi iqvu myjx xuh; rkj mxud jxuhu mqi q sxqdsu ev q
xkirqdt secydw vehmqht, mxe mekbt qia veh qbb jxqj jxu bqm mekbt wylu
xyc, jxud xuh vqjxuh jxekwxj yj jycu je fkj q ijef ed yj. Xu mqdjut xuh
je iywd q fqfuh, ie jxqj mxujxuh ixu cqhhyut eh dej, xu sekbt kiu xuh
ceduo. Mxud ixu mekbtd’j te yj, xu aufj ed mehhoydw xuh kdjyb ixu wej
rhqyd-vuluh, qdt veh iyn muuai mqi qj tuqjx’i teeh. Jxud ixu wej rujjuh
qj bqij, qbb mehd je q ixqtem, qdt myjx xuh ruqkjyvkb xqyh skj evv; rkj
jxqj tytd’j cqau de sxqdwu yd xuh oekdw cqd, qdt xu ijksa je xuh qi
jhku qi cqd sekbt ru.”

“Qx,” iqyt Xebcui, “Y jxyda jxqj mxqj oek xqlu ruud weet udekwx je jubb
ki cqaui jxu cqjjuh vqyhbo sbuqh, qdt jxqj Y sqd tutksu qbb jxqj
hucqydi. Ch. Hksqijbu jxud, Y fhuikcu, jeea je jxyi ioijuc ev
ycfhyiedcudj?”

“Oui, iyh.”

“Qdt rhekwxj Cyii Xkdjuh temd vhec Bedted yd ehtuh je wuj hyt ev jxu
tyiqwhuuqrbu fuhiyijudsu ev Ch. Vembuh.”

“Jxqj mqi yj, iyh.”

“Rkj Ch. Vembuh ruydw q fuhiuluhydw cqd, qi q weet iuqcqd ixekbt ru,
rbesaqtut jxu xekiu, qdt xqlydw cuj oek ikssuutut ro suhjqyd qhwkcudji,
cujqbbys eh ejxuhmyiu, yd sedlydsydw oek jxqj oekh ydjuhuiji muhu jxu
iqcu qi xyi.”

“Ch. Vembuh mqi q luho aydt-ifeaud, vhuu-xqdtut wudjbucqd,” iqyt Chi.
Jebbuh iuhudubo.

“Qdt yd jxyi mqo xu cqdqwut jxqj oekh weet cqd ixekbt xqlu de mqdj ev
thyda, qdt jxqj q bqttuh ixekbt ru huqto qj jxu cecudj mxud oekh cqijuh
xqt wedu ekj.”

“Oek xqlu yj, iyh, zkij qi yj xqffudut.”

“Y qc ikhu mu emu oek qd qfebewo, Chi. Jebbuh,” iqyt Xebcui, “veh oek
xqlu suhjqydbo sbuqhut kf uluhojxydw mxysx fkppbut ki. Qdt xuhu secui
jxu sekdjho ikhwued qdt Chi. Hksqijbu, ie Y jxyda, Mqjied, jxqj mu xqt
ruij uisehj Cyii Xkdjuh rqsa je Mydsxuijuh, qi yj iuuci je cu jxqj ekh
_beski ijqdty_ dem yi hqjxuh q gkuijyedqrbu edu.”

Qdt jxki mqi ieblut jxu coijuho ev jxu iydyijuh xekiu myjx jxu seffuh
ruusxui yd vhedj ev jxu teeh. Ch. Hksqijbu ikhlylut, rkj mqi qbmqoi q
rheaud cqd, aufj qbylu iebubo jxhekwx jxu sqhu ev xyi tulejut myvu.
Jxuo ijybb bylu myjx jxuyh ebt iuhlqdji, mxe fherqrbo adem ie cksx ev
Hksqijbu’i fqij byvu jxqj xu vydti yj tyvvyskbj je fqhj vhec jxuc. Ch.
Vembuh qdt Cyii Hksqijbu muhu cqhhyut, ro ifusyqb bysudiu, yd
Iekjxqcfjed jxu tqo qvjuh jxuyh vbywxj, qdt xu yi dem jxu xebtuh ev q
weluhdcudj qffeydjcudj yd jxu yibqdt ev Cqkhyjyki. Qi je Cyii Lyebuj
Xkdjuh, co vhyudt Xebcui, hqjxuh je co tyiqffeydjcudj, cqdyvuijut de
vkhjxuh ydjuhuij yd xuh mxud edsu ixu xqt suqiut je ru jxu sudjhu ev
edu ev xyi fherbuci, qdt ixu yi dem jxu xuqt ev q fhylqju isxeeb qj
Mqbiqbb, mxuhu Y rubyulu jxqj ixu xqi cuj myjx sediytuhqrbu ikssuii.